Wesh !
Wesh!
Ça, c'est Fred, qui découvre sa voiture étincelante après un lavage dans une station WASH de Total Energy.
This is Fred, who discovers his sparkling car after washing at a WASH station in Total Energy.
Waouh, waouh, WASH !
Wow, Wow, WASH!
Et ça, c'est Lola, la sœur de Fred, qui découvre que la voiture est tout aussi étincelante à l'intérieur.
And that's Lola, Fred's sister, who discovers that the car is just as sparkling inside.
Vous proposez le plus grand réseau de lavage auto en France avec plus de 1000 centres ?
Do you offer the largest car wash network in France with more than 1000 centres?
C'est ça, WASH de Total Energy.
That's right, WASH from Total Energy.
Et ça, c'est le jingle Total Energy, le plus grand réseau en nombre d'installations de lavage
And this is the Total Energy jingle, the largest network in number of washing facilities
avec 1097 centres WASH en France au 28 février 2025.
with 1097 WASH centres in France on 28 February 2025.
L'énergie et notre avenir, économisons-la.
Energy and our future, let's save it.
Bon, les gars, c'est bon, ça y est, c'est rayé, c'est le moment pub, ça y est, on a percé.
Okay, guys, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it.
T'es enfin compris dans une salle de plus de 12 ?
Are you finally included in a room over 12?
Ferme-la, non, j'ai trouvé un sponsor.
Shut up, no, I found a sponsor.
Mais qu'est-ce que c'est ? Une marque de bière, un shampoing ?
What the hell is that? Beer brand, shampoo?
Non, bien vu, mais non, NordVPN, les gars.
No, no, no, NordVPN, guys.
Oh, NordVPN, le VPN le plus connu d'Internet !
Oh, NordVPN, the most famous VPN on the Internet!
Ah, voilà, je savais, Franjo, que tu serais parfait pour les pubs, tu es fait pour ça.
Ah, well, I knew, Franjo, that you'd be perfect for commercials, you're made for that.
Mais Urbain, enfin, à quoi ça peut bien servir un VPN ?
But Urban, what's a VPN for?
Excellente question, Pierre. Un VPN permet de chiffrer toute son activité en ligne et donc de renforcer sa confidentialité.
Excellent question, Pierre. A VPN enables you to encrypt all your online activity and thus strengthen your privacy.
Et aussi de faire croire à son ordinateur qu'on n'est pas à l'endroit où on est en changeant d'adresse IP et donc d'emplacement virtuel.
And also to make your computer believe that you're not where you are by changing your IP address and therefore your virtual location.
Comme quand je dis à ma meuf que je travaille alors qu'en fait, je suis au bar.
Like when I tell my girl that I'm working when I'm actually at the bar.
Donc on peut contourner les géorestrictions et mater des films pas dispo en France sur les catalogues de streaming.
So we can bypass georestrictions and watch movies not available in France on streaming catalogues.
Mais exactement, Franjo.
But exactly, Franjo.
Et toi, Pierre, pourquoi utilises-tu le VPN ?
And you, Pierre, why are you using the VPN?
Ouais, moi, les pubs, je vous laisse faire, les gars. Vous le faites très bien sans moi.
Yeah, me, the pubs, I'll let you guys do it. You do it very well without me.
Franchement, t'as déjà été pas mal.
Frankly, you've been pretty good.
Avec le code promo PODKASSOS, P-O-D-K-S-S-O, PODKASSOS, quoi, en passant directement par le lien en description.
With the promo code PODKASSOS, P-O-D-K-S-S-O, PODKASSOS, what, passing directly through the description link.
Vous avez 4 mois à offert pour un abonnement de 2 ans et vous pouvez résulier au bout de 30 jours si vous n'êtes pas satisfait.
You have 4 months to offer for a 2 year subscription and you can result after 30 days if you are not satisfied.
Mais c'est super, ça !
That's great!
Ouais, carrément.
Yeah, totally.
Non, mais fais plus d'entrains, fais la voix de pub.
No, but do more workouts, do the advertising voice.
Ah oui, trop bien, la vie !
Ah yes, too good, life!
Voilà !
There!
Bon, voilà, vous avez tous les renseignements.
All right, here's the information.
Merci NordVPN de nous sponsoriser. Maintenant, on est des vrais gars d'Internet.
Thank you NordVPN for sponsoring us. Now we're real Internet guys.
Allez, arrête. Même dans les pubs, tu parles trop.
Come on, stop. Even in commercials, you talk too much.
C'est vrai que je parlais un peu beaucoup, mais j'aime bien.
It's true I was talking a little bit, but I like it.
Et joyeux Noël à tous !
And merry Christmas to everyone!
Ah, pfff...
Joyeux Noël sur PODKASSOS !
Merry Christmas on PODKASSOS!
Attends, on est le 25, là ?
Wait, we're 25 here?
Alors, c'est soit le 24, soit le 25, ça dépend, c'est David Kassos qui poste.
So it's either the 24th or the 25th, it depends, it's David Kassos who posts.
Très bien.
All right.
Moi, j'ai déjà eu un beau cadeau, vous tous. On est bien, là ?
I've already had a nice present, all of you. Are we all right here?
On est bien.
We're good.
Joli cadeau. Comment allez-vous ? Je crois que j'ai le pire chapeau. J'aurais dû choisir en premier.
Nice gift. How are you? I think I have the worst hat. I should have chosen first.
Ah, non, je pense que tu t'en sors pas mal.
Oh, no, I think you're doing pretty good.
Ouais, mais j'ai le chapeau qui a des poux.
Yeah, but I got the hat with lice.
Ah, oui.
Oh, yes.
Mais vu que t'as plus de cheveux...
But since you have no hair...
Fais gaffe, le reine de Noël.
Watch out, Christmas queen.
Les poux dégoûtés qui vont chez Pierre tous les ans et qui arrivent là, ils disent putain !
The disgusting lice that go to Peter's every year and come here, they fucking say!
Il y a une blague comme ça.
There's a joke like that.
C'est quoi un poux sur le crâne de Pierre à SDF ?
What's a lice on Pierre's skull at homeless?
Marrant.
Fun.
Voilà.
There.
Et c'est dans son spectacle, ça ?
And that's his show?
Ça, c'est dans mon spectacle.
That's in my show.
Quoi ?
What?
Ça, c'est dans mon spectacle, ça ?
Is this in my show?
C'est dans mon spectacle que vous pouvez acheter pour faire un cadeau de Noël.
It's in my show you can buy to make a Christmas present.
Ah, on fait la promo ?
Ah, we're promoting?
Ah, bah alors là, achetez tout de suite des pubs.
Ah, well then, buy ads right now.
Non, on est trop tard.
No, we're too late.
Mais c'est trop tard.
But it's too late.
Les 24, c'est que les cadeaux sont faits.
The 24th is that gifts are made.
Si vous avez vraiment un cadeau de dernière minute, j'ai des places à Lyon.
If you really have a last-minute present, I have tickets in Lyon.
Ouf, toi, il y a des gens, ils font par exemple le repas de famille.
Oh, you, there are people, for example, they make family dinner.
Tu sais, vu qu'il y a des divorcés ou il y a des machins.
You know, since there are divorcees or things.
Donc c'est décalé, tu le fais genre le 28.
So it's off, you do it like the 28th.
Et les gens, ils font le cadeau le 28.
And people, they give the gift on the 28th.
Non, non, mais nous, on est bien avec les places de spectacle.
No, no, but we're good at the show places.
Parce que vraiment, littéralement, tu peux l'acheter sur ton téléphone 4 secondes avant.
Because really, literally, you can buy it on your phone four seconds before.
Direct.
Non, mais c'est genre, oh putain, on n'a rien pour tâtir.
No, but it's like, oh fucking, we got nothing to do.
Il va falloir rester.
We'll have to stay.
Après, c'est mieux quand même de l'imprimer.
Then it's better to print it anyway.
Parce que genre, bah tiens, ton cadeau, il est sur WhatsApp.
Because, like, hey, your present, it's on WhatsApp.
C'est un peu de la mienne.
It's kind of mine.
Ah oui, non, ça, il faut quand même trouver une petite enveloppe.
Oh, yes, no, that, you still have to find a small envelope.
Un petit truc à faire.
Something to do.
Mais les places, moi j'ai fait ça une fois.
But the seats, I did this once.
Place pour la SM, place.
Place for SM, place.
Mais je peux pas les humoristes.
But I can't comedians.
Parce que j'aimerais donner de l'argent à des collègues.
Because I'd like to give money to colleagues.
Mais les gens savent que j'ai des invites.
But people know I have guests.
Donc ils pensent que si je les achète, je les achète pas.
So they think if I buy them, I don't buy them.
Et quand même, il y a quand même ce truc de tu me fais un cadeau.
And still, there's this thing you're giving me a present.
Mais je veux que tu aies dépensé de l'argent.
But I want you to spend money.
C'est ça, ouais.
That's right, yeah.
Sinon, c'est pas vraiment un cadeau, quoi.
Otherwise, it's not really a gift.
Moi, j'ai offert Luc Kini déclame Victor Hugo à mes parents.
I offered Luc Kini to tell my parents about Victor Hugo.
Putain, moi aussi.
Fuck me, too.
Et on n'y est pas allé.
And we didn't go.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Apparemment, c'est bien.
Apparently, that's good.
Bah c'est énorme.
Well, that's huge.
Moi, je rêve de le voir, Luc Kini.
I dream of seeing him, Luc Kini.
Je rêve de le voir.
I dream of seeing him.
Ça te parle un peu ?
Does that mean something to you?
Je t'emmerde, bien sûr que oui, je connais Luc Kini.
Fuck you, of course I do, I know Luc Kini.
Je sais pas.
I don't know.
Le gars, il part tout le temps.
The guy, he leaves all the time.
Je sais que toi, tu connais Luc Kini, mais ça te parle.
I know you know Luc Kini, but it talks to you.
Genre, t'irais voir le truc, quoi.
Like, you'd go see the thing.
J'aime bien l'acteur.
I like the actor.
Je sais pas si j'irais voir deux heures de Luc Kini qui fait du Luc Kini.
I don't know if I'd go see Luc Kini for two hours doing Luc Kini.
Bah moi, je trouve que...
Well, I think...
Après, en vrai, je le kiffe.
Then, in real life, I'm kicking him.
Luc Kini qui fait du Luc Kini, pour moi, c'est un de mes stand-upers préférés.
Luc Kini who makes Luc Kini, for me, is one of my favorite stand-ups.
Tu vois, quand il fait des interviews et qu'il part dans des histoires.
See, when he's doing interviews and he's going into stories.
Et d'ailleurs, dans ses spectacles, il y a pas mal de or où il sort du texte et il parle aux gens.
And besides, in his shows, there's a lot of gold where he comes out of the text and he talks to people.
Et il y a des trucs qu'il répète depuis...
And there's some stuff he's been repeating since...
En fait, c'est plus ou moins un stand-upers.
Actually, it's more or less a stand-up.
C'est le roi de l'impro.
He's the improv king.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Mais c'est de l'impro qu'a éronne.
But that's improbation.
C'est de l'impro contrôlé.
It's impro controlled.
C'est-à-dire qu'il fait les mêmes trucs.
That is, he does the same thing.
Par exemple, il a un couple.
For example, he has a couple.
Il dit...
He says...
Il a toujours ce couple de...
He still has this couple of...
C'est la femme de gauche qui l'adore, qui accompagne son mec qui est plus salon de loto,
It's the woman on the left who loves her, who accompanies her boyfriend who's more of a lotto salon,
qui lui, en a rien à foutre.
He doesn't give a shit.
Et il fait cette blague depuis 20 ans.
And he's been doing this joke for 20 years.
Donc maintenant, tu la vois dans ses spectacles.
So now you see her in her shows.
Il la bosse depuis...
He's been working on her for...
Donc il est trop fort.
So he's too strong.
Et en vrai, quand il part dans des histoires...
And actually, when he goes into stories...
Moi, il me fait penser à un stand-upers quand il part dans des théories.
He reminds me of a stand-up when he goes into theories.
Davidson, si tu peux nous mettre la théorie de...
Davidson, if you can put the theory of...
Quand on est de droite, on est...
When you're on the right, you're...
Mais ça, il faut que t'arrêtes de faire ça.
But you have to stop doing this.
Pourquoi ?
Why?
C'est scandaleur.
It's outrageous.
De quoi ?
About what?
Davidson, tu iras faire des recherches supplémentaires pour mettre le lien.
Davidson, you're gonna go do some extra research to get the link.
Il est le monteur.
He's the editor.
C'est le principe d'un podcast.
That's the principle of a podcast.
Moi, je trouve ça dramatique.
I think it's dramatic.
Je trouve que c'est vraiment le...
I think it's really the...
Tu sais, les gars qui a quelqu'un qui le suit.
You know, guys who have someone following him.
On fait, moi, non, l'assistante et tout.
We do, me, no, the assistant and everything.
Tu me mettra des places pour machin.
You'll put me in places for something.
T'as jamais vu Joe Rogan ?
Have you ever seen Joe Rogan?
C'est le principe.
That's the principle.
Il dit qu'il faut mettre la vidéo.
He says we have to put the video on.
Mais voilà.
There you go.
Mais tu regardes Joe Rogan.
But you look at Joe Rogan.
On est trois blaireaux avec des chapeaux et des poux.
We're three badgers with hats and lice.
Attention, Spotify m'a appelé.
Be careful, Spotify called me.
Ça arrive.
It happens.
Le deal à 100 millions est pas loin.
The 100 million deal is not far away.
Le deal à 100 millions.
The 100 million deal.
Alors, je t'enverrai le lien Davidson de ce truc de Lucini qui dit que pour être de droite,
So I'll send you the Davidson link to this Lucini thing that says to be right,
il faut être gros.
You have to be fat.
Et il a tout un sketch.
And he has a whole sketch.
Il faut être gros.
You have to be fat.
Il dit, regardez Carthuson, il est gros, il fait du bateau.
He says, look at Carthuson, he's fat, he's on a boat.
Il est de droite.
He's on the right.
C'est normal.
That's normal.
Il a tout un truc là-dessus.
He's got something on it.
Mais Zemmour, il est tout mince.
But Zemmour, he's thin.
Ouais, c'est-à-dire que ton théorème...
Yeah, that is, your theorem...
Ah non, mais il a quatre secondes.
No, but he's four seconds away.
C'est la blague de Lucini.
This is Lucini's joke.
Regardez la vidéo.
Watch the video.
Lui, il est en mode.
He's in fashion.
Il aime bien les gars opulents qui font du bateau.
He likes the opulent guys who ride the boat.
C'est rigolo.
It's funny.
C'est vrai que quand tu fais du bateau, t'es plus marqué à droite.
It's true that when you're on the boat, you're more marked to the right.
Ah bah ça, bateau, doudoune sans manche, espèce de gros vide.
Ah, that, boat, dowel without sleeves, you big emptiness.
Attends, on va faire un test.
Wait, let's take a test.
Qui ici a le permis bateau ?
Who here has the boat license?
On a pas le droit de mentir.
We can't lie.
Parce que Dieu te regarde.
Because God is looking at you.
Mais alors, pour ma défense.
But then, in my defense.
Non, non, attends, répond à moi.
No, no, wait, answer me.
La question, c'est qui a le permis bateau ?
Who has the boat license?
La réponse, c'est moi ou pas moi ?
The answer is me or not?
Est-ce que j'ai le droit de dire un oui, mais ?
Do I have the right to say yes, but?
Oui, mais je n'ai jamais conduit de bateau.
Yeah, but I never drove a boat.
Lève la main.
Hand up.
Ah bah c'est mieux.
Ah, that's better.
Tu l'as.
You got it.
Et voilà.
There you go.
Alors, qui a déjà tapé sur un djembe dans une manif ?
So, who ever typed on a djembe in a demonstration?
Pas dans une manif, ouais.
Not in a protest, yeah.
Ah t'as déjà tapé sur un djembe ?
Have you ever hit a djembe?
Bah bien sûr.
Of course.
Tout le monde a déjà fait djembe.
Everyone's already done djembe.
Oui, non, mais genre il en a, oui.
Yeah, no, but like he has, yeah.
J'en ai chez moi et tout.
I'm home and everything.
J'ai une guitare.
I have a guitar.
Ouais, ouais, j'étais.
Yeah, yeah, I was.
C'est vrai que toi, t'as vu.
It's true you saw it.
Je fréquente les gens du voyage.
I'm dating Travellers.
En fait, t'es devenu de droite parce que t'as été musicien de rue.
Actually, you turned right because you were a street musician.
Et donc, tu t'as vu les gens, les femmes, les chiens.
And so, you've seen people, women, dogs.
Et tu t'es dit, c'est pas mon monde.
And you thought, it's not my world.
Et je suis devenu...
And I became...
Non, non, c'était des musiciens de rue de droite quand même.
No, no, they were street right musicians anyway.
Oula.
Je connais un peu la famille.
I know a little about the family.
Oula, ouula.
Oula, uula.
Mais en fait...
But actually...
Ça n'a jamais été socialiste chez les Rénaux.
It was never socialist in the Renals.
Mais on ne sait pas trop si anti-système, c'est de droite ou de gauche.
But we don't know if it's anti-system, it's right or left.
Si.
Yes.
Arrêtez avec anti-système parce qu'il est quand même dans le système.
Stop with anti-system because it's still in the system.
Tu connais Madaron, c'est une anti-système, elle ne valide rien.
You know Madaron, it's an anti-system, it doesn't validate anything.
Oui, elle ne valide rien, mais bon.
Yeah, it's not valid, but good.
Même JL.
Even JL.
Les gilets jaunes, c'est quoi ?
What is yellow vests?
Extrême gauche ou extrême droite ?
Far left or far right?
Même JL, elle est contre JL.
Even JL, she's against JL.
Voilà.
There.
C'est quoi gilets jaunes ?
What's yellow vests?
Extrême gauche ou extrême droite ?
Far left or far right?
En fait, à partir de quand t'es anti-système ?
Actually, when are you anti-system?
Je ne prononce pas.
I don't pronounce.
Tu utilises l'électricité du réseau EDF, tu n'es pas anti-système.
You use EDF power, you're not an anti-system.
Non mais tu sais, c'est quoi ?
No, but you know what?
C'est quoi ?
What is it?
Tu es vraiment anti-système.
You're really anti-system.
Oui, c'est vrai.
Yes, it is.
Ça ne tient pas.
It doesn't hold.
Non mais anti-système relatif.
No, but relative anti-system.
Non mais oui, je vois la définition.
No, but yes, I see the definition.
Mais t'as bien, elle est vraiment comme ça ?
But you're okay, is she really like that?
Ouais, tu sais, c'est un peu une...
Yeah, you know, it's kind of a...
Elle est réfractaire un peu tout.
She's a little refractory.
Elle est géniale.
She's great.
Elle est en défiance sur tout ce qu'on veut t'imposer.
She's in distrust of everything we want to impose on you.
À part les quantiques en latin, ça.
Except for the quantums in Latin.
Voilà, c'est ça.
Right.
Ça, c'est bon.
That's good.
Mais oui, elle a beaucoup de...
But yes, she has a lot of...
Comment dire ?
How can I say that?
De suspicions.
Suspicions.
C'est marrant de croire à aucun dogme ni truc qu'on t'impose sauf la religion.
It's fun to believe in no dogma or anything you're being forced on except religion.
Mais bon, on est toujours quoi.
Well, we're still what.
Mais est-ce que oui ?
But is it?
Est-ce que du coup, c'est totalement...
So, is it totally...
Ça m'est, en vrai, je l'ai vu quelques fois.
It's actually me, I've seen it a few times.
Je ne sais pas, je ne connais pas beaucoup, mais je l'ai vu quelques fois.
I don't know, I don't know much, but I've seen him a few times.
Si elle t'aime bien, c'est merveilleux.
If she likes you, it's wonderful.
Alors moi, j'ai eu de la chance.
So I was lucky.
Je crois que je suis...
I think I'm...
Bon, il ne faut pas qu'elle écoute trop le podcast.
Well, she shouldn't listen too much to the podcast.
Il ne faut pas qu'elle rencontre Durbin, d'ailleurs.
She should not meet Durbin, by the way.
Je suis tombé du bon côté parce qu'on a bu du rosé ensemble.
I fell on the bright side because we drank rosé together.
Donc, du coup, elle aime bien.
So, she likes it.
Mais ce n'est pas bien si tu es son ennemi.
But it's not good if you're his enemy.
C'est pas bon pour elle.
It's not good for her.
Non, on a déjà fait des tournages.
No, we've been shooting before.
On avait bien rigolé avec ta mère.
We had fun with your mother.
Alors, je m'étais moqué de son gilet.
So I made fun of his vest.
Elle t'aime bien, elle t'aime bien.
She likes you, she likes you.
Davidson vidéo.
Davidson video.
Ce n'est même plus Davidson, c'est D.
It's not even Davidson anymore, it's D.
Non, on ne dit même plus vidéo.
No, we don't even say video anymore.
Tu fais juste...
You're just...
Il comprend, toi.
He understands you.
Le D, c'est terrible.
D's terrible.
Noël, je crois qu'on a...
Christmas, I think we have...
Mais on l'a déjà fait.
But we already did.
Avant de parler de...
Before we talk about...
Oui, mais c'est pas parce qu'on l'a déjà fait qu'il ne faut pas le refaire.
Yeah, but it's not because we've already done it that we shouldn't do it again.
On l'a fait tous les ans.
We did it every year.
Oui.
Yes.
Et alors, est-ce qu'on s'enlace ?
So, do we just hang up?
Tous les ans, c'est le birthday de Jésus.
Every year, it's Jesus' birthday.
Et on lui offre rien.
And we don't give him anything.
Je commence par un tip.
I'll start with a tip.
Buvez pas de l'eau gazeuse quand vous faites un podcast live.
Don't drink gas water when you do a live podcast.
Ou un spectacle.
Or a show.
Ouais, parce que du coup, là, il faut s'écarter du micro assez souvent.
Yeah, because then you have to get away from the microphone quite often.
J'avoue que moi, je suis rentré un peu dans ce personnage de regarder,
I admit, I got a little bit into this character watching,
je bois de la bière sur scène, je suis un punk.
I drink beer on stage, I'm a punk.
J'ai des rototos tout le temps, c'est très chiant.
I have rototos all the time, it's really boring.
Faudrait vraiment que je trouve un autre truc.
I really need to find something else.
Ou bouffe.
Or eat.
Non, c'est quoi ?
No, what is it?
T'as décidé punk, mais la France est plus décidée bouffe.
You've decided punk, but France is no longer determined to eat.
Ah bah, il y a des gens qui décident.
Well, there are people who decide.
Ouais, ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tu sais, c'est des gens qui décident.
You know, people decide.
Qu'est-ce qu'un punk ?
What is a punk?
On l'a déjà fait ou pas, ça ?
Have we done it or not?
Je suis pas sûr.
I'm not sure.
Non, mais c'est pas punk, en plus.
No, but it's not punk, too.
Moi, c'est un mec qui est une crête colorée.
I'm a guy who's a colored ridge.
Non, mais je crois qu'il y a un côté anti-système aussi dans punk.
No, but I think there's an anti-system side in punk too.
Ouais, bah maintenant, ça fait longtemps qu'ils le sont plus.
Yeah, well, now they've been longer.
Oui.
Yes.
Ah ouais ?
Yeah?
Bah, oui, ça a 50 ans.
Well, yeah, it's 50 years old.
Tu peux pas être anti-système.
You can't be anti-system.
Ou alors tu vis dans la forêt.
Or you live in the forest.
Tu peux rien dire.
You can't say anything.
En fait, oui, tout est une question de définition.
In fact, yes, everything is a question of definition.
C'est soit tu définis anti-système et il y a des gens qui le sont, ou alors t'es dans
It's either you define anti-system and there are people who are, or you're in
un vaste truc dans lequel tu mets personne parce que tu sais pas ce que ça veut dire.
A big thing you're putting nobody in because you don't know what that means.
Chacun a son niveau d'acceptation.
Everyone has their level of acceptance.
Exactement.
Exactly.
T'es anti-vax, c'est ce que t'es anti-système.
You're anti-vax, that's what you're anti-system.
C'est assez dur.
It's pretty hard.
Je pense surtout aux anticapitalistes qui ne peuvent rien dire sans que leur disait
I think above all of the anti-capitalists who can't say anything without telling them
« Bah dis-donc, t'as des baskets ! »
"Well, so you got sneakers! »
Et après, quand ils en ont, on les fait chier.
And then, when they have them, they're shitted.
Et s'ils sont vraiment en mode homme de la forêt, on dit « bah, on va prendre une
And if they're really in the man mode of the forest, we say, "Well, we're gonna take a
douche trop du cul ».
shower too much of the ass".
Ils sont niqueurs à chaque fois.
They're fucked every time.
Ils peuvent rien faire.
They can't do anything.
T'es pas crédible.
You're not credible.
Si t'es un mec, je sais pas, tu veux défendre des idées, mais t'es à poil dans la forêt
If you're a guy, I don't know, you want to defend ideas, but you're naked in the forest.
avec des bouts de feuilles et tout, et tu dis « on t'écoutera pas, donc il faut
with pieces of leaves and everything, and you say, "We won't listen to you, so we have to
mettre une chemise ».
Put on a shirt."
Et si on met une chemise, il dit « qui c'est qui a fabriqué ta chemise ? »
And if you put on a shirt, he says, "Who made your shirt? »
Et t'as perdu.
And you lost.
Et t'as toujours perdu.
And you've always lost.
À moins de la faire tout seul et tout, mais c'est un enfer.
Unless you do it alone and everything, but it's hell.
Ouais, ça se voit.
Yeah, I can tell.
Ça se passe, ça se voit bien.
It's happening, it's obvious.
Tu puits, forcément, tu puits.
You're sinking, of course, you're sinking.
Et puis même, les matériaux de la chemise, où est-ce que tu les as pris ? C'est un
And then even the shirt materials, where did you take them? It's a
truc sans fin.
It's endless.
Tu te fais toujours niquer à être anticapitaliste, c'est pas possible.
You always get fucked up being anticapitalist, it's not possible.
Ouais, ouais, il reste le…
Yeah, yeah, he's still the...
Je rappelle qu'on a les chapeaux des cons.
I'll remind you we've got the assholes' hats.
Parce que là, on a des discussions un peu…
Because now we're having some discussions...
Non, mais c'est…
No, but it's...
Moi, j'ai regardé la…
I looked at the...
Toi, tu l'as poussé vers l'arrière, t'assumes, tu remontes tout de suite.
You pushed him back, you take care, you go up right now.
Mais en fait, le truc, c'est qu'il me fait chier parce qu'il y a un truc qui fait
But actually, the thing is, he's pissing me off because there's something going on.
glingling.
Glingling.
Écoutez-moi ça.
Listen to this.
Tu remontes, t'assumes.
You go up, you take care.
Je n'en peux plus.
I can't take it anymore.
Mais lui aussi, il l'a.
But he has it, too.
Ah bon ?
Right?
Et si tu bouges pas, ça fait pas de bruit.
And if you don't move, it's quiet.
Ah oui, c'est vrai.
Oh, right.
C'est que toi, tu bouges trop.
You're moving too much.
Non, tu l'as pas.
No, you don't.
Moi, je l'ai.
I got it.
Si, il l'a.
Yes, he does.
Si, il est glingling là-bas.
Yes, it's glingling over there.
Écoutez, pour ceux qui sont sur Spotify.
Look, for those on Spotify.
Mais non, il l'a aussi.
No, he has it, too.
Oui, mais ça grelotte moins.
Yeah, but it's not as good.
Mais toi, tu bouges moins la tête.
But you don't move your head.
Allez, voilà.
Come on, here we go.
Mais pourquoi tu bouges la tête ?
But why are you moving your head?
Je ne sais pas.
I don't know.
J'ai regardé le capitalisme.
I looked at capitalism.
C'est marrant la définition.
It's funny definition.
C'est faire, je crois, peut-être que j'ai dit de la merde, c'est faire fonctionner
It's doing, I think, maybe I said shit, it's making it work.
l'argent.
money.
C'est l'argent qui fait de l'argent.
Money makes money.
Oui, c'est le capital.
Yes, it's capital.
Avoir, partir avec un capital et le faire fructifier.
Having, leaving with capital and making it grow.
Donc en fait, c'est assez vaste.
So, actually, it's pretty big.
Moi, ça m'aide pas plus que ça.
I can't help it.
J'ai vu une phrase de Zappa, que j'aime bien.
I saw a phrase from Zappa, which I like.
Il disait, le communiste, ça marchera jamais.
He said, the communist will never work.
Mais les gens aiment bien avoir des trucs.
But people like to have stuff.
Et c'est tout.
And that's it.
C'est juste ça.
It's just that.
Les people like to own stuff.
People like to own stuff.
Et je me suis dit, c'est pour ça que c'est vrai.
And I thought, that's why it's true.
Mais c'est vrai.
But it's true.
Les gens aiment bien avoir des trucs, quoi.
People like to have stuff.
Moi, j'étais en Chine.
I was in China.
Je n'ai jamais vu autant de grosses bagnoles et tout qu'en Chine, alors que c'est un truc
I've never seen so many big cars and everything in China, when it's a thing.
communiste.
Communist.
D'ailleurs, vous avez vu les pubs.
Besides, you saw the ads.
Le gouvernement, il est vraiment...
The government, it really is...
Chinois ou français ?
Chinese or French?
Le gouvernement français.
The French government.
On est vraiment schizophrène, quoi.
We're really schizophrenic.
Bien sûr, ils n'arrêtent pas de nous dire, il faut consommer la croissance, tout
Of course, they keep telling us, we have to consume growth, all
ça, c'est important.
This is important.
Et il y a une...
And there's a...
Maintenant, je ne sais pas si vous avez vu les pubs, où un gars essaie d'acheter un
Now, I don't know if you saw the ads, where a guy is trying to buy a
téléphone, il dit, non, non, achète plutôt en reconditionné, c'est bien les trucs...
Phone, he says, no, no, buy rather in reconditioning, that's the stuff...
Et c'est l'État qui sponsorise ça.
And the state sponsors this.
Donc l'État nous dit, officiellement, avec une vraie campagne de l'État, arrêtez
So the state says, officially, with a real state campaign, stop
d'acheter neuf.
buy new.
C'est pas bien pour les ressources de la planète.
It's not good for the planet's resources.
D'un autre côté, ils nous disent, bon, si on ne consommait pas, le PIB va se crasher.
On the other hand, they tell us, well, if we didn't consume, GDP will crash.
Et en fait, il y a ce truc bizarre entre écologie et capitalisme, porté directement par
And in fact, there's this weird thing between ecology and capitalism, carried directly by
l'État, où tu dis, mais en fait, tous les deux, vous envoyez deux messages qui n'ont
the state, where you say, but in fact, both of you send two messages that don't have
rien à voir, quoi.
Nothing to see.
Vous savez très bien que si on achète tous d'acheter du neuf, le PIB s'écroule,
You know very well that if we all buy new stuff, GDP collapses,
et vous aussi.
And so are you.
Et c'est marrant, parce que ça me fait penser à ce mec-là, avec les cheveux longs, je
And it's funny, because it reminds me of that guy, with long hair,
ne sais pas comment il s'appelle, qui parle toujours d'écologie.
Don't know what his name is, who always talks about ecology.
Les vrais carons.
The real carons.
Non, non, c'est un autre qui est à fond dans l'écologie, qui est tout mince, tu vois
No, no, it's another one that's deep in ecology, that's all thin, you know.
ou pas ?
Or not?
Un physiste.
A physist.
Qui parle de décroissance.
Talking about decay.
Oui, oui, oui, je vois qui c'est.
Yes, yes, yes, I see who it is.
Qui dit qu'on confond, en fait, pour lui, la décroissance, ce n'est pas vraiment la décroissance,
Who says that we are, in fact, confounding for him the decline is not really the decline,
enfin, je le dis très très mal, mais en gros, pour lui, arrêter de taper dans les ressources
Finally, I say it very badly, but basically, for him, stop typing in resources
et tout, ce n'est pas forcément décroître, c'est le contraire, tu vois.
And everything is not necessarily decreasing, it's the opposite, you know.
Et je ne sais pas s'il a raison, parce que c'est vrai que comme tu dis, si tu arrêtes
And I don't know if he's right, because it's true that as you say, if you stop
d'acheter, l'économie peut-être est en récession.
the economy may be in recession.
Je n'en sais rien, mais j'ai trouvé ça fou.
I don't know, but I thought it was crazy.
C'est un écolon, lui.
He's a scoundrel.
Ce n'est pas une...
It's not a...
Je ne sais pas si tu vois de qui je parle.
I don't know if you know who I'm talking about.
Il y a un mec auquel je pense que c'est Aurélien...
There's a guy I think it's Aurélien...
Exactement.
Exactly.
Barreau, Barreau, un truc comme ça.
Bar, Bar, something like that.
Pas Chapuis, Barreau, j'aurais dit.
Not Chapuis, Bar, I would have said.
Barreau, Barreau.
Bar, Bar.
Mais arrête, c'est genre un...
But stop, it's like a...
C'est un scientifique, le gars.
He's a scientist, the guy.
Oui, mais il est chaud de ouf.
Yeah, but he's hot.
La moitié de ses mots, je ne comprends pas, je suis obligé de m'arrêter pour aller voir.
Half his words, I don't understand, I have to stop to go see.
Mais lui, il est décroissant, lui, un peu.
But he's a little down.
Voilà, exactement.
That's it, exactly.
Il ne faut pas tout arrêter, mais il faut juste s'habituer à être un peu plus...
You don't have to stop everything, but you just have to get used to being a little more...
C'est quoi le truc en S ?
What's the S thing?
Sobre.
Sober.
Être un peu plus...
Be a little more...
Tu n'as pas regardé la bonne personne, pour trouver le mot.
You didn't look at the right person to find the word.
Moi, j'ai le droit de le dire.
I have a right to say that.
Je suis sous-produit parce que j'ai 250 ans et j'ai des broleps de dos.
I'm by-product because I'm 250 years old and I have back broleps.
Ah oui, papy, il s'est bloqué le dos.
Oh, yeah, papy, he's blocked his back.
Mais là, ça va mieux.
But now it's better.
En faisant du paddle.
By paddling.
Du coup, je me remets tranquillement, donc j'ai encore des tureux.
As a result, I'm recovering quietly, so I still have a bunch of creeps.
Je pense que c'est le basket.
I think it's basketball.
Oui, c'est ça.
Yeah, right.
Tu as fait du paddle alors que tu as déjà le dos bloqué.
You made a paddle when you already have your back blocked.
Je suis un gogole.
I'm a gogola.
Je mérite tout ce qui m'arrive.
I deserve everything that happens to me.
Je suis une énorme merde et je ne mérite aucune pitié de la part de personne.
I'm a huge piece of shit and I don't deserve any pity from anyone.
Et d'ailleurs, tu n'as pas été si nul au paddle.
And besides, you haven't been that bad at the paddle.
Alors que tu étais quand même bloqué.
While you were still stuck.
Du coup, je tapais moins fort.
That's why I didn't make it.
Il a le même niveau que moi, blessé.
He's got the same level as me, hurt.
Non, il est quand même meilleur.
No, he's still better.
Blessé, il est meilleur que moi normal.
Injured, he's better than me normal.
Le panel, on y joue une fois tous les six mois.
The panel, we play once every six months.
Donc, on est vraiment dans une stagnation terrible.
So, we're really in a terrible stagnation.
On est juste un peu moins que nul.
We're just a little less than shit.
Et voilà, quoi.
There you go.
Tu disais, tu mérites tout.
You said, you deserve everything.
Lui, il a un potentiel.
He has a potential.
Il y a une nouvelle insulte que je vois beaucoup sur les réseaux.
There's a new insult that I see a lot on the networks.
Je l'ai reçu aussi et elle fait vraiment mal.
I got it too and it really hurts.
Gauchiste ?
Gauchist?
Non, mais ça ne fait pas mal.
No, but it doesn't hurt.
Ce qui me fait marrer, c'est que de toute façon, c'est les deux bords.
What makes me laugh is, anyway, it's both sides.
Notre but, de toute façon, c'est de nous faire insulter de deux côtés.
Our goal, anyway, is to get insulted on both sides.
On y arrive tous.
We all do.
Très bien.
All right.
C'est...
That's...
Vous ne méritez rien.
You don't deserve anything.
J'aime beaucoup de ça.
I like that.
Vous ne méritez rien.
You don't deserve anything.
Et je trouve ça vraiment old school et méchant.
And I find it really old school and mean.
Je ne sais même pas ce que ça veut dire, mais je trouve ça hyper grave.
I don't even know what that means, but I think it's very serious.
Il faut que tu arrêtes de regarder les commentaires.
You have to stop looking at the comments.
Impossible.
Tu m'as un peu corrompu à le faire.
You've corrupted me a little bit.
Des fois, je regarde et je me marre.
Sometimes I look and laugh.
Et je me rends compte, ça va, j'ai de la chance que j'ai...
And I realize, it's okay, I'm lucky I'm...
Ça ne me fait rien du tout parce qu'il y a des trucs, c'est vrai que c'est fascinant.
It doesn't matter to me at all because there are things, it's true that it's fascinating.
Des gens...
People...
Oh, il a une vue sale gueule maintenant.
Oh, he's got a dirty face now.
Je me désabonne.
I don't like it.
À toi ?
To you?
Ouais.
Yeah.
Je crois que j'ai pris ça sur une vidéo, ouais.
I think I took this from a video, yeah.
Et ça, ça veut dire qu'il y a des mecs qui étaient pour...
And that means there were guys who were for...
Et nous, on n'est pas sensibles aux attaques sur notre physique parce que c'est pas notre art.
And we're not sensitive to attacks on our physics because it's not our art.
Non, mais attends.
No, but wait.
Pierre, ça, ça veut dire qu'il y a un gars qui te suit pour ton physique.
Pierre, that means there's a guy following you for your physics.
Non, je ne sais pas ce que c'est.
No, I don't know what it is.
Je crois que c'était peut-être une meuf.
I think maybe she was a girl.
Ah ouais, c'est encore pire.
Oh yeah, that's even worse.
Ou c'est peut-être une blague.
Or maybe it's a joke.
Tu vois, j'en sais rien.
See, I don't know.
Mais c'est...
But it's...
Les gens, ils mettent des trucs.
People, they put stuff on.
Ils s'en battent les couilles.
They're fighting their balls.
Non, sur le...
No, on the...
J'ai déjà parlé plein de fois, mais je n'ai jamais compris les attaques physiques.
I've spoken many times before, but I never understood the physical attacks.
Je les trouve gratuites.
I find them free.
Après, je trouve ça pas mal.
Then I think it's not bad.
Mais nous, on s'en fout.
But we don't care.
D'un côté, il y a un peu des fous comme ça, des Gilles de la Tourette qui nous permettent de...
On the one hand, there's a little crazy people like that, Gilles de la Tourettes that allow us to...
Parce que derrière ce fou, si ça se trouve, tout le monde le pense.
Because behind this madman, if it happens, everyone thinks so.
Il y a quand même une vérité.
There's still a truth.
Et toi, bon, alors, ça fait mal.
And you, well, it hurts.
C'est toujours le même principe de...
It's always the same principle of...
Est-ce qu'il faut des bullies dans la vie pour avancer ?
Do you need bullies in life to move forward?
Ou est-ce qu'il faut qu'on nous protège ?
Or should we be protected?
Quel commentaire t'as fait mal, toi ?
What comment did you make?
Non, mais ça peut être...
No, but it could be...
C'est con quand ils disent...
It's stupid when they say...
Reste-t-il des places pour le spectacle du en bas ?
Are there any seats left for the show downstairs?
Là, j'ai mal.
Now I'm hurting.
Il reste des places à Besançon.
There are still seats in Besançon.
Non, mais tu sais, les attaques physiques, il n'y a rien...
No, but you know, physical attacks, there's nothing...
Un, que je ne sais pas.
One, I don't know.
Deux, qui...
Two, who...
Mais c'est...
But it's...
Je...
I...
Je voudrais toujours savoir pourquoi quelqu'un fait ça.
I always want to know why someone does this.
Il y a une règle.
There's a rule.
Et souvent, sa règle, c'est...
And often, his rule is...
Bah, je peux.
Well, I can.
Il dit, bah, j'ai le droit de m'exprimer.
He says, well, I have the right to speak.
J'ai dit, oui, mais...
I said yes, but...
Mais ça sert à quoi ?
But what's the point?
Ça sert à quoi, c'est ça ?
What's that for?
Il y a une règle que j'ai vue quelque part.
There's a rule I saw somewhere.
C'est que les attaques physiques doivent pas être faites
It is that physical attacks must not be made
si le changement physique ne peut pas se faire en moins d'une demi-heure.
if physical change cannot take place within half an hour.
C'est-à-dire qu'en gros...
That is, basically...
Ouais, les vêtements, la coupe de cheveux...
Yeah, clothes, haircut...
Voilà.
There.
Ça fait très mal si c'est un truc que tu peux pas changer, quoi.
It hurts a lot if it's something you can't change.
Tu vois ?
See?
Genre, t'as un strabisme ou un bec de lièvre, c'est fini toute ta vie, tu l'as.
Like, you have a strabism or a hare beak, it's all over your life, you got it.
Donc, ça va te faire mal et tu sais que c'est impossible à changer.
So, it's gonna hurt you and you know it's impossible to change.
Donc, moi, je pense que c'est une bonne règle.
So, I think that's a good rule.
Par exemple, tes dents, en vrai, en une patate...
For example, your teeth, actually, in a potato...
Ouais, tu remets tout.
Yeah, you put it back.
On peut changer.
We can change.
Ma gamelle à vélo, là, je refaisais tout.
My bike bowl, I was doing everything again.
Après, c'est différent, genre, entre potes, taillés et tout, on s'en fout.
After that, it's different, like, between friends, cut and everything, you don't care.
En fait, un inconnu qui t'attaque, c'est vrai que c'est un délire.
In fact, a stranger who attacks you, it's true that it's a delusion.
Mais en fait, moi, ce que je...
But in fact, me, what I...
J'accepte n'importe quelle attaque physique si elle est tournée comme une blague, même pas une bonne.
I accept any physical attack if it's turned like a joke, not even a good one.
En fait, ce que j'aime pas, c'est...
Actually, what I don't like is...
Attends, genre, t'es gros, virgule, lol.
Wait, like, you're fat, comma, lol.
Non, t'es gros, lol, j'aime pas.
No, you're fat, lol, I don't like it.
T'es gros, tiens mon doigt.
You're fat, hold my finger.
Non.
No.
Mais non, mais...
No, but...
Il a dû bouffer la caméra.
He must have eaten the camera.
Enfin, je sais, n'importe quoi qui est un peu tourné du fait que c'est une blague,
I mean, I know, anything that's a little twisted because it's a joke,
je dis, OK, je suis un gars de l'humour, ça me va.
I say, okay, I'm a humor guy, that suits me.
Ouais, ouais, t'es pas gros.
Yeah, yeah, you're not fat.
Fais gaffe, là, tu viens d'ouvrir une porte, là.
Watch out, you just opened a door there.
Là, les gens ont commentaire, ils vont se lâcher.
There, people commented, they're going to let go.
Ah non, je m'en branle.
No, I'm not.
Faites-nous les meilleures blagues de gros sur Urbain.
Make us the best fat jokes on Urban.
Roasté en reine de Noël.
Roasted as a Christmas queen.
Je donne des indices.
I give clues.
On épingle exceptionnellement la meilleure blague de gros sur Urbain.
We're exceptionally pinning the best fat joke on Urban.
Putain, c'est ça qu'il faut qu'on fasse.
Fuck, that's what we have to do.
Je vais vous mettre...
I'll put you...
Il y a un subreddit, c'est un forum sur Reddit, c'est des forums,
There's a subreddit, it's a forum on Reddit, it's forums,
et puis c'est par sujet.
And then it's by subject.
Et donc, c'est des subreddit.
And so, it's subreddit.
Et il y en a un qui s'appelle Roast Me.
And there's one named Roast Me.
Roastez-moi.
Roast me.
Et tu poses juste une photo,
And you just put down a picture,
et t'as les internautes qui t'enculent,
and you have the netizens who fuck you,
et les meilleurs sont upvotés.
And the best are upvoted.
Et genre, les gens le font souvent.
And like, people do it often.
Et t'as, faut qu'on envoie des photos de nous,
And you have, we need to send pictures of us,
et qu'on laisse les internautes américains nous défoncer.
And let the American netizens screw us up.
Reddit, c'est quoi ?
Reddit, what is it?
C'est un gros forum.
It's a big forum.
C'est un nerd ultime ou pas forcément ?
Is he an ultimate nerd or not necessarily?
Non, non, non, maintenant, c'est devenu assez mainstream.
No, no, no, now it's become pretty mainstream.
Tu peux avoir des sous-forums sur tout.
You can have subforums on everything.
Et donc, Roast Me est très connu,
And so Roast Me is very well known,
et t'as juste à poster une photo.
And you just have to post a picture.
Et les gens te défoncent.
And people get you high.
Et si ça prend,
And if it takes,
et il y a des vannes atomiques.
And there are atomic valves.
C'est génial.
That's great.
Genre, il faut regarder les mieux notés.
Like, you have to look at the best scores.
Mais nous, ça serait bien que ça prenne.
But we'd be happy to take it.
Tu passes beaucoup d'heures sur les internets.
You spend a lot of hours on the internet.
C'est connu, Roast Me.
It's known, Roast Me.
Reddit, c'est connu, Roast Me.
Reddit, it's known, Roast Me.
C'est vraiment que t'as passé du temps sur Reddit
You really spent time on Reddit.
qui est pas non plus connu de ouf.
which is also not known by ouf.
J'étais...
I was...
C'est comme si tu venais dans une autre catégorie d'un film.
It's like you're in another category of a movie.
T'es quoi ? T'es ambassadeur France ?
What are you? Are you Ambassador France?
Non, mais j'étais professionnel à Topito.
No, but I was a professional at Topito.
On devait trouver des nouvelles tendances,
We had to find new trends,
des nouveaux trucs auxquels parler tout le temps.
new stuff to talk to all the time.
Ah, vous êtes...
Ah, you're...
Ouh, copie comique !
Oh, comedian copy!
Vous alliez piquer les idées des Américains ?
You were gonna steal the American ideas?
Non, pas copie comique.
No, not comic copy.
On appelle ça benchmark.
We call it benchmark.
Non, mais c'était...
No, but it was...
Oui, c'est ça le terme.
Yes, that's the term.
C'est ça le terme.
That's the term.
Mignon de vol.
Flight Cute.
Non, c'était pas du vol.
No, it wasn't stealing.
Évidemment que Topito,
Of course Topito,
il y avait la curation,
There was curation,
la moitié s'était cité.
half had been quoted.
On disait, il y a un nouveau...
We were saying, there's a new...
Curation ?
Curing?
Curation, ça s'appelle.
Curation, it's called.
Ça s'appelle un hommage.
It's called a tribute.
Non, mais c'est pas un hommage.
No, but it's not a tribute.
Un hommage, ce serait...
A tribute would be...
Regardez, j'ai inventé un truc.
Look, I made something up.
Il faut qu'il soit mort.
He must be dead.
C'est pas un hommage.
It's not a tribute.
Là, c'est juste, regardez,
Right now, look,
voici les meilleurs...
These are the best...
roast me,
avec marqué roast me, en gros.
with marked roast me, basically.
Tu peux quand même citer d'autres trucs marrants.
You can still quote other funny things.
En petit.
Little.
Mais non, parce qu'ils sont pas débiles,
But no, because they're not stupid,
c'est des trucs d'Américains et tout.
It's American stuff and everything.
En tout cas, connaître les tendances.
In any case, know the trends.
Pourquoi tu t'énerves ?
Why are you getting mad?
T'as des choses à te reprocher ?
Do you have anything to blame?
Mais non, c'est juste...
But no, it's just...
C'est les gens qui s'énervent,
It's people who get angry,
qui ont des choses à se reprocher.
who have things to blame.
Non, ça, j'aime pas,
No, I don't like that.
parce que justement...
Because precisely...
Tu montes du doigt.
You're up your finger.
Ouh là là, il y a beaucoup de signes.
There's a lot of signs there.
On sait David Iquita, il dirait.
We know David Iquita, he would say.
Attention.
Be careful.
On a touché.
We touched.
Analyse ça, David I.
Analyze this, David I.
Ouh là, all in.
Wow, all in.
Allez.
Come on.
Il ment, il bluff.
He's lying, he's bluffing.
On a beaucoup...
We have a lot...
On s'est beaucoup battus contre les sites
We fought a lot against the sites
qui, justement,
which, precisely,
notamment au début de la vidéo,
in particular at the beginning of the video,
c'est vrai que ça...
It's true that...
T'es un Jedi, alors ?
So you're a Jedi?
Ah oui.
Oh, yes.
Vous l'avez ou pas ?
Do you have it or not?
On s'est battus contre les gens de la vidéo.
We fought against the people in the video.
Un Jedi ?
Jedi?
Je l'ai pas.
I don't have it.
On s'est beaucoup battus contre les sites.
We fought a lot against the sites.
Ah, les sites !
Ah, the sites!
J'avais pas les sites.
I didn't have the sites.
Putain, t'as l'air décroissant,
Fuck, you look like you're going down,
des pains au chocolat,
chocolate bread,
tu l'as pas eu, je t'ai dégouté.
You didn't get it, I disgusted you.
Non, mais je l'ai eu en tête,
No, but I had it in mind,
mais je me suis dit non, c'est nul.
But I thought no, it sucks.
Peut-être les jeux de mots,
Maybe the puns,
on les garde que pour les Summer Editions
We keep them that for Summer Editions
qu'on avait fait,
that we had done,
quand on a le chapeau du jeu de mots.
When you have the word game hat.
En plus, on a déjà les chapeaux, là.
Besides, we already have the hats there.
On a déjà la maison
We already have the house.
qu'on va faire.
We're gonna do it.
Non, mais il y avait beaucoup de connards
No, but there were a lot of assholes.
qui sont morts
who died
et qu'il y avait des groupes,
and that there were groups,
des sites, quoi.
sites.
J'en profite, tu parles de Summer Editions.
I take advantage, you're talking about Summer Editions.
On joue le 31 mai à Biarritz.
We play on May 31 in Biarritz.
Je le dis,
I'm saying,
parce qu'on vient le 31 mai à Biarritz.
Because we're coming to Biarritz on May 31.
Petite parenthèse.
Little parenthesis.
Mais attends,
But wait,
la info était complet,
the information was complete,
on fait même pas plus grand.
It's not even bigger.
Il t'écoute,
He's listening.
laisse tomber.
Forget it.
Biarritz, c'est rempli.
Biarritz, it's full.
Biarritz, ça sera complet.
Biarritz, it'll be complete.
Mais oui.
Yes.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
Mais je le dis, parce que...
But I say it, because...
Et on retourne dans le même restaurant
And we go back to the same restaurant
avec la meuf qui a la voix bizarre.
with the girl with the weird voice.
Exactement.
Exactly.
Et cette fois, on chante.
And this time we sing.
On devait chanter au piano,
We were supposed to sing on the piano,
on l'a pas fait.
We didn't.
On chante et on fera un vlog.
We sing and we make a vlog.
Hé, attends.
Hey, wait.
Est-ce qu'on n'avait pas dit...
Didn't we say...
Alors là, cette semaine,
So this week,
on s'est un peu entretenu sur...
We talked a little bit about...
Urbain, il a eu un retour
Urban, he got back
d'un professionnel du podcast
a podcast professional
de ce qu'il faut faire, pas faire.
What to do, not do.
Et un des retours,
And one of the returns,
c'était pas avoir un peu plus de structure
It wasn't having a little more structure.
et d'avoir des sujets...
and having subjects...
Là, je crois que c'est le plus bordélique
Now I think it's the most borderlic.
des épisodes qu'on a déjà écrit.
episodes we've already written.
Non, c'est pas ça qu'il avait dit.
No, that's not what he said.
Il avait dit, des fois,
He said, sometimes,
le rythme retombe
the rhythm falls
et avoir des petites rubriques
and have small entries
peut aider.
Can help.
Mais là, le rythme est très bon.
But now the rhythm is very good.
Ah, d'accord.
All right.
Tant mieux, j'ai pensé
Good, I thought.
à des rubriques que je veux vous...
I want you to go to some of the headlines I want...
Attends, attends.
Wait, wait.
Moi aussi, j'en ai.
I have some too.
Donc chacun un autre tour.
So each one's another turn.
Très bien.
All right.
Alors moi, je vous explique.
Then I'll explain.
Je prépare plus
I'm not preparing anymore.
parce que j'ai peur de mal faire.
Because I'm afraid to hurt.
Non, t'as vu...
No, you saw...
Bon, il y a un petit conflit
Well, there's a little conflict.
entre les deux.
In between.
Non, pas du tout.
No, not at all.
Il n'y a pas de conflit.
There is no conflict.
Urbain, urbain...
Urban, urban...
Non, mais je suis d'accord.
No, but I agree.
Il y a eu un retournement de cap.
There's been a turnaround.
Non, comment ça s'appelle ?
No, what's that called?
C'est quoi l'expression
What is the expression?
quand tu cherches de veste ?
When you're looking for a jacket?
Oui.
Yes.
Un retournement de veste.
A twist of a jacket.
Cap, je ne sais pas.
Cap, I don't know.
Il y a le Vendée Globe en ce moment.
There's the Vendée Globe right now.
Franjo était de l'équipe
Franjo was on the team
« Faut préparer, faut préparer,
"We have to prepare, we have to prepare,
vous voyez. »
See. »
Urbain, au début, il disait
Urban, at first, he said
« Non, on s'en bat les couilles,
"No, we fight our balls,
on s'en bat les couilles,
We're fighting the balls,
on s'en bat les couilles. »
We're fighting the balls. »
Et l'autre jour,
And the other day,
il y a eu un petit débrief inverse
there was a small reverse debrief
de « Putain, les gars,
"Fuck it, guys,
on ne prépare pas assez »
we don't prepare enough."
et tout machin.
and everything.
Et moi, je prends des tacles
And I take tables
parce que je prépare des trucs
'Cause I'm making stuff.
et tu me dis
and you tell me
« Mais non, les gens,
"But no, people,
ils n'aiment pas qu'on prépare ! »
They don't like us getting ready! »
Et c'est marrant,
And it's funny,
vous n'avez toujours pas compris.
You still don't understand.
C'est vrai que c'était pas mal
It was not bad.
dans les aigus.
in the acutes.
Vous n'avez toujours pas compris
You still don't understand.
ce que je voulais dire.
What I meant.
« Ah, il n'y a encore personne
"Ah, there's no one yet
dans mon spectacle ! »
In my show! »
Ça, c'est le spectacle de Mickey.
This is Mickey's show.
Mais d'ailleurs,
But by the way,
dites-le en commentaire
say it in comment
est-ce que vous aimez
Do you like
quand c'est plus structuré
when it's more structured
ou quand c'est le bordel ?
Or when it's a mess?
C'est ça qu'il faut demander.
That's what you have to ask.
Mais ce n'est pas la question.
But that's not the point.
Ce n'est pas ce que je disais.
That's not what I was saying.
Bien sûr qu'il faut préparer,
Of course we have to prepare,
mais si on prépare,
But if we prepare,
on prépare tous ensemble
We all prepare together
parce que sinon,
because otherwise,
ça n'a pas de sens.
It doesn't make sense.
Genre là, on s'était dit
Like here, we thought
« On fait le bilan de l'année
"We are taking stock of the year
et on aurait dû le savoir. »
And we should have known. »
Si on le sait, c'est cool.
If we know, it's cool.
Non, non, c'est l'épisode d'après.
No, no, this is the next episode.
Oui.
Yes.
Du coup, il sera...
So he'll be...
Parce qu'il y a un épisode
Because there's an episode
qu'on fait pour le nouvel an
that we're doing for the new year
et je vous invite à le regarder.
And I invite you to look at him.
Il sort dans une semaine
He'll be out in a week.
et on fera le bilan de l'année.
And we'll take stock of the year.
Et on aurait dû le préparer.
And we should have prepared it.
Mais on va le préparer.
But we'll get him ready.
Mais du coup,
But then,
moi, je suis pour
I'm for
que ce soit le bordel.
It's a mess.
Mais si des fois,
But if ever,
il y a une petite rubrique
There's a little section.
qui nous permet
which allows us
quand on se fait chier
When you're fucked
ou qu'on se répète
or repeat
de retomber sur nos pattes,
to fall on our feet,
pourquoi pas ?
Why not?
J'en ai quelques-unes
I have a few.
que je peux vous proposer.
I can offer you.
Pour ou contre le foie gras ?
For or against foie gras?
Alors, ce n'est pas du tout une rubrique.
So it's not a column at all.
C'est tellement...
It's so...
Alors, déjà,
So, already,
il veut te nuire aujourd'hui.
He wants to hurt you today.
Il va se manger un peu.
He'll eat a little.
Alors là, donc...
So now, so...
Il n'arriverait pas à le nuire.
He couldn't hurt him.
Ah non.
Oh, no.
Aucun problème.
No problem.
Et sinon,
And if not,
pour.
For.
Pour, évidemment.
For, of course.
Pour manger.
To eat.
Évidemment, c'est trop bon.
Of course, it's too good.
Mais c'est délire.
But it's crazy.
Ah, mais moi, ce n'est même pas ça.
Oh, but I'm not even that.
Même si ce serait dégueu,
Even if it were gross,
il mérite de prendre très cher.
He deserves to take very expensive.
C'est que c'est vraiment
It's just that it really is.
des connasses, les oies.
bitches, geese.
C'est ouf.
It's crazy.
C'est vraiment des connasses.
They're really bitches.
Moi, de toute façon,
Me, anyway,
je me suis dit...
I thought...
C'est vrai qu'en matière d'animaux
It is true that in animal matters
que sales bêtes,
as dirty beasts,
les oies et les signes
geese and signs
de la sales bête.
You're a dirty beast.
Attends, mais peut-être
Wait, but maybe
que les oies,
the geese,
elles ont aussi un truc génétique.
They also have a genetic thing.
Elles savent ce que les humains
They know what humans do
leur font
make them
et elles ne vont pas être
and they're not going to be
en mode sympa
in nice mode
après des années de gavage.
After years of gavage.
J'espère que c'est des connasses,
I hope they're bitches,
les oies.
geese.
J'espère.
I hope so.
Elles doivent se venger quand même.
They still have to get revenge.
Mais aucune notion de...
But no notion of...
Quand elle te court dessus,
When she runs over you,
si tu restes là,
If you stay here,
en fait, tu la déboîtes.
Actually, you're kicking her.
Enfin, c'est quand même
I mean, it's still
que du bluff, quoi.
Just bluff.
C'est comme les Yorkshire.
It's like Yorkshire.
C'est que du bluff.
It's just bluff.
Il n'y a rien derrière.
There's nothing behind it.
C'est marrant.
That's funny.
Je viens de penser
I just thought
que les chiens sont très gentils
that dogs are very nice
et est-ce que
and is
c'est parce qu'ils étaient gentils
That's because they were nice.
qu'on ne les a jamais bouffés
We never ate them.
ou est-ce qu'ils ont compris
or did they understand
qu'ils ne nous bouffent pas,
they don't eat us,
apparemment,
Apparently,
on va être gentils avec eux ?
Are we gonna be nice to them?
C'est pas bon.
It's not good.
On ne va pas en reparler.
We're not gonna talk about it again.
J'ai déjà dit
I already said
qu'on refaisait les mêmes sujets,
That we were doing the same things again,
mais je t'ai déjà dit
but I already told you
que j'en ai déjà mangé.
I've already eaten some.
Tu m'as oublié.
You forgot me.
Et je te confirme,
And I confirm you,
c'est pas bon.
It's not good.
Mais les chiens,
But dogs,
ils sont sympas
They're nice.
et on ne les bouffe pas.
And we don't eat them.
Donc, c'est l'un ou c'est l'autre.
So it's either one or the other.
Est-ce qu'ils nous remercient
Do they thank us?
quelque part ?
somewhere?
Peut-être.
Maybe.
C'est juste qu'ils ne sont pas bons
It's just they're not good.
parce que les lapins,
because rabbits,
c'est adorable.
That's adorable.
En même temps,
At the same time,
les chiens,
dogs,
on ne les bouffe pas
We don't eat them.
et c'est des grosses merdes.
And it's big shit.
Les lapins, on les bouffe.
Rabbits, we eat them.
C'est un exemple de truc
It's an example of something.
qui est un animal domestique
which is a domestic animal
et qu'on bouffe.
And eat.
Mais j'ai l'impression
But I feel
que petit à petit,
that little by little,
ça passe moins.
It doesn't work.
Les lapins,
Rabbits,
on en mange moins, non ?
We eat less, right?
Je ne sais pas.
I don't know.
Ça commence à me dégoûter.
It's starting to disgust me.
Il y a des boucheries chevalines.
There are horse butchers.
Mec, c'est un délire.
Dude, that's crazy.
Il faut culturellement...
Culturally...
Il y en a dans Paris, des fois.
There are times in Paris.
Petit, je me rappelle,
Kid, I remember,
je crois que là,
I think there,
ça ne se fait plus.
It's not happening anymore.
Mais petit,
But little,
mon gars,
boy,
il avait une tête de cheval
He had a horse head.
dans une boucherie.
in a butcher shop.
Moi, ça m'avait marqué.
Well, I was so impressed.
Je sais.
I know.
D'ailleurs, je peux...
Besides, I can...
Je donnerai le lien à Davidson.
I'll give Davidson the link.
J'ai pas pensé.
I didn't think so.
J'aimerais faire de la pub
I'd like to advertise
pour un compte Instagram
for an Instagram account
vegan
qui a une super idée.
who has a great idea.
Ils ont une blague
They have a joke.
et ils ne la lâchent pas.
And they don't let her go.
Ils font tout
They do everything
comme s'ils étaient
as if they were
une ferme pour chiens.
A dog farm.
En fait,
Actually,
tous leurs trucs,
All their stuff,
c'est...
It's...
Par exemple,
For example,
ils ont des recettes
they have recipes
ou chien,
or dog,
pote au feu de chien
dog fire buddy
ou, par exemple,
or, for example,
regardez comment
Look how
nos chiens sont bien élevés.
Our dogs are well raised.
C'est important
It's important.
que nos agriculteurs y vivent.
our farmers live there.
Et il n'a jamais la blague.
And he never has a joke.
Il parle exactement
He talks exactly.
comme des agriculteurs
as farmers
qui disent
who say
sur les vaches,
on cows,
nous, on prend soin des vaches.
We take care of the cows.
Sauf que c'est sur les chiens.
Except it's on dogs.
Et les gens pètent des câbles
And people fart cables
et surtout...
And above all...
Parce qu'ils pensent que c'est vrai ?
Because they think it's true?
Il y en a qui pensent que c'est vrai
Some people think it's true.
et les autres,
and the others,
la plupart qui les suivent
most who follow them
sont des trolls
are trolls
qui continuent la blague.
That keep the joke going.
En mode,
In mode,
miam, miam,
on va bien se régaler
We're gonna have a good time.
avec des bons chiens invités.
with good invited dogs.
Il faut tout pareil.
It's all the same.
Et franchement,
And frankly,
c'est une façon
It's one way.
de t'alerter sur...
to alert you about...
C'est vrai,
That's right,
pourquoi on mange
Why we eat
certains animaux et d'autres
certain animals and others
tout en étant rigolo,
while being funny,
tout en étant pas chiant.
I'm not a pain in the ass.
Surtout que le marketing est top.
Especially since marketing is great.
Et petit point,
And little point,
on dit que les véganes
They say vegans
sont relous.
They're looking up.
Là, c'est quand même très marrant.
It's still very funny.
Et à chaque fois,
And every time,
j'ai ce malaise
I have this unease
quand je vois les photos
when I see the photos
en mode,
in mode,
putain,
Fuck,
c'est la ignole de bouffer du chien
It's the dog's hate to eat
qui petit à petit
who gradually
va m'emmener de...
Will take me from...
Voilà,
There you go.
à part les volailles
other than poultry
que je déteste évidemment
that I obviously hate
comme les oies,
like geese,
mais petit à petit,
But gradually,
je commence à avoir ce...
I'm starting to get this...
Je vais l'avoir un jour
I'm gonna have it one day.
ce truc mental
that mental thing
de bouffer du lapin,
eat rabbit,
bouffer du cheval.
Eat horse.
Un jour,
One day,
ça sera bouffer une vache
It'll eat a cow.
ou un cochon.
Or a pig.
Ça finira par m'avoir.
It'll get me.
Il commence en plus
He starts more
sur les réseaux.
on networks.
Moi, vous savez,
I, you know,
je bouge la viande
I move the meat
et tout encore un peu,
and all a little more,
mais j'aime bien l'idée
But I like the idea
des écolos
Environment
et tout
and all
de en manger beaucoup moins,
to eat much less,
voire même d'arrêter.
even to stop.
L'idée en soi,
The idea in itself,
elle est un peu folle.
She's a little crazy.
Peut-être,
Maybe,
je n'en sais rien culturellement,
I don't know culturally,
moi, j'ai un truc de boucher
Me, I got a butcher thing.
et tout,
and all,
donc j'ai quand même ça
So I still have this.
dans la tête.
in the head.
Sur la tête aussi.
On the head too.
Oui,
Yes,
ça c'est moi aussi.
That's me, too.
J'ai vu des trucs,
I've seen things,
j'ai vu des vidéos
I've seen videos
qui commencent à être
that are beginning to be
bien foutues
Well done.
en même temps,
at the same time,
tu vois,
See,
genre,
Like,
tu sais,
You know,
un bébé cochon,
a pig baby,
tu sais,
You know,
un peu L214,
a little L214,
tu vois,
See,
genre dans des conditions
gender under conditions
dégueulasses,
Gross,
à l'abattoir,
at the slaughterhouse,
en train de gueuler et tout
screaming and everything
et juste au-dessus,
and just above,
des gens qui font un barbecue
people who make a barbecue
avec du bacon
with bacon
et qui se font...
And they do...
Et ils disent,
And they say,
je crois qu'ils appellent ça
I think they call it
dissonance cognitive,
cognitive dissonance,
exemple perfect.
perfect example.
Je n'ai jamais trop compris
I never understood too much.
ce que c'était,
What it was,
dissonance cognitive,
cognitive dissonance,
mais je crois que c'est
But I think it's
à peu près ça.
About that.
Et c'est quand tu regardes ça,
And that's when you look at this,
là,
There,
ça te fait un petit truc.
That makes you feel a little bit.
Alors que moi,
While I,
normalement,
normally,
je ne suis pas du tout...
I'm not at all...
Enfin,
Finally,
moi,
Me,
ce n'est pas les vidéos
It's not the videos.
qui m'ont rendu sensible
who made me sensitive
à bouffer moins de viande,
eat less meat,
en tout cas.
Anyway.
Ce n'est pas ça
It's not that.
qui m'a fait ça.
who did this to me.
Il y en a qui sont allés
Some have gone
voir un abattoir
see a slaughterhouse
et ils ont dit,
And they said,
depuis,
Since then,
je suis devenu végétarien.
I became a vegetarian.
Il y a des gens
There are people
qui bossent en abattoir,
who work in a slaughterhouse,
qui ont arrêté...
Who stopped...
Un des plus gros taux
One of the highest rates
de turnover,
Turnover,
c'est les gens
It's people.
qui travaillent
Working
dans les abattoirs.
in slaughterhouses.
Les mecs deviennent fous.
Guys go crazy.
C'est terrible.
That's terrible.
Ils s'est bien payés
They paid well.
parce qu'ils savent
because they know
que les mecs
That guys
craquent au bout
crack at the end
d'un mois et demi.
A month and a half.
Il faut être psychopathe,
You have to be a psychopath,
en fait.
Actually.
Tu ne vois que des animaux
You only see animals
qui ont l'air mignon
Who look cute
qui crèvent.
who die.
Oui, c'est ça.
Yeah, right.
Tu sais,
You know,
il y a des trucs,
There's stuff,
genre,
Like,
typiquement,
typically,
moi,
Me,
à la pêche,
fishing,
tu vois,
See,
j'y ai plus,
I'm out,
mais aller à la pêche,
but go fishing,
tu sors un poisson,
You bring out a fish,
ça te...
You...
Alors,
So,
ça ne fait pas kiffer
That doesn't make you like
plus que ça,
More than that,
ce qu'on avait fait,
What we did,
mais tu n'es pas en mode...
But you're not in the mode...
Tu n'as pas un sentiment
You don't have a feeling.
dramatique de
drama
« putain,
"For fuck's sake,
je suis en train
I'm on my way.
de tuer une bestiole ».
to kill a bug."
Tu le vois quand même
You still see him.
quand il fait
when he does
« flap, flap, flap »
"flap, flap, flap"
qu'il y a un truc.
There's something.
Plus de plus en plus maintenant.
More and more now.
La dernière fois
Last time
que j'en ai fait
I've made it.
un coup de pêche,
fishing,
ça m'a fait chelou.
That made me crazy.
Mais il y a 5-6 ans,
But 5-6 years ago,
je suis allé quelques fois
I went a few times
« tu vas pêcher en mer
"you will fish at sea
avec un pote et tout ».
with a friend and everything."
Mais non,
But no,
c'était en Guadeloupe.
It was in Guadeloupe.
Non, mais avant.
No, but before.
C'est ça,
That's right,
la dernière fois
last time
que je suis allé,
that I went,
moi,
Me,
c'était en Guadeloupe.
It was in Guadeloupe.
T'as chopé,
You caught it,
c'était de la pêche sportive.
It was sports fishing.
On ne valide pas.
We're not valid.
Après,
Then,
t'es encore un peu con.
You're still a little stupid.
Mais j'aimais beaucoup
But I loved it very much.
le mec à qui...
The guy who...
Ça, ça a été con de connerie
That was bullshit.
à peu près
about
que j'ai la date
that I have the date
pour voir si c'est raccord.
See if it's connected.
C'était à 5-6 ans.
It was 5-6 years old.
Il écoute le mec d'ailleurs
He's listening to the guy.
mais je ne sais pas
But I don't know.
s'il faut dire son nom
if you have to say his name
parce qu'on va rapporter.
'Cause we're gonna bring it back.
Mais il écoute
But he's listening.
et il kiffe le...
And he's kicking the...
Non, mais en plus,
No, but besides,
moi, j'avais une bonne discussion
I had a good talk.
avec ce gars.
With this guy.
Donc, c'est un gars
So, he's a guy.
de la pêche sportive
sport fishing
et il propose
and proposes
des...
of...
C'est tu relâches.
You're letting go.
Il y a une blague
There's a joke.
de Gad Elmaleh
of Gad Elmaleh
qui dit
which says
il n'y a que la pêche
There is only fishing
qu'on fait ça.
We're doing this.
Jamais tu tires sur un oiseau
Never shoot a bird
et tu le relâches comme ça.
And you release him like that.
Il y a des discussions là-dessus.
There are discussions on this.
Si c'est bien fait,
If it's done right,
il semblerait que ça
Seems like that.
le tout va être toujours en ça.
It's always gonna be in this.
Et le gars,
And the guy,
il disait lui-même
He said himself
qu'il se posait des questions.
he was wondering.
Il disait,
He said,
c'est vrai que...
It's true that...
Des fois, je me dis
Sometimes I think
putain, mais en fait,
Fuck, but actually,
je vais déboîter
I'm gonna break up.
des poisskails
peas
comme ça pour rigoler.
Like that to laugh.
Et après, je les relâche.
And then I release them.
Je vais faire un truc
I'll do something.
dans la bouche.
in the mouth.
Et il était justement,
And he was just,
lui, dans ce centre-deux.
He's in this center-two.
Mais comme on a tous,
But as we all have,
il disait,
He said,
je kiffe trop.
I like too much.
En même temps,
At the same time,
putain, je sais bien
I fucking know.
que ça ne fait pas trop du bien.
It doesn't feel too good.
Mais sauf que,
But except,
pareil, quand toi,
same, when you,
tu prends l'avion,
You're flying,
tu sais que ça ne fait pas
You know it doesn't matter.
trop du bien.
Too much good.
Ou moi,
Or me,
quand je mange du poulet,
When I eat chicken,
il y a un poulet,
There's a chicken,
je ne mange plus de bœuf.
I don't eat beef anymore.
Et je dis,
And I say,
moi, je ne mange plus de bœuf,
I don't eat beef anymore,
je suis trop fier de ça.
I'm too proud of this.
Mais c'est parce que
But that's because
ça a été facile pour moi d'arrêter.
It was easy for me to stop.
Alors du coup,
So then,
je mange quand même du poulet.
I still eat chicken.
Je suis quand même
I'm still
un peu de merde.
A little shit.
Tu peux toujours trouver
You can still find
une excuse.
An excuse.
Et de se dire,
And to say,
finalement,
finally,
ce n'est peut-être pas ça,
Maybe it's not that,
c'est la chaîne alimentaire.
It's the food chain.
L'avion,
The plane,
tu peux dire,
You can say,
est-ce que vraiment
Is it really
le dioxyde de carbone,
carbon dioxide,
j'en sais rien.
I don't know.
Au fait,
By the way,
ça fait vraiment du mal.
It really hurts.
Ce n'est pas le bon moment,
This is not the right time,
mais il faut qu'on avait parlé
But we need to talk.
de la chasse,
hunting,
on avait donné des chiffres
we had given figures.
et je dois faire mon méga-culpa.
And I have to do my mega-culpa.
J'ai eu beaucoup,
I've had a lot,
beaucoup de gens
many people
qui m'ont envoyé des études.
who sent me studies.
Moi aussi,
Me too,
j'ai un méga-culpa à faire.
I have a mega-culpa to do.
Il y a quand même beaucoup,
There's still a lot,
beaucoup moins de morts.
far fewer deaths.
Attends,
Wait.
on ne finit pas le truc de la pêche ?
We're not finishing the fishing thing?
Si,
Yes,
on...
We...
Et juste pour finir,
And just to finish,
qu'on finisse que nous,
That we end up,
on a fait ce truc de pêche.
We did this fishing thing.
Mec,
Dude,
en vrai,
Actually,
sur le papier,
on paper,
c'est un truc,
It's a thing,
je pense,
I think,
tu as 14 ans,
You're 14,
c'est un truc de ouf.
It's a shitty thing.
Tu vas dans le marais
You go in the swamp
de la Guadeloupe
of Guadeloupe
avec un bateau de ouf,
with an ouf boat,
tu pêches des barracoudas
you pee barracoudas
comme As.
Like Ace.
Non,
No,
toi,
You,
tu es en culé.
You're a motherfucker.
C'est que de la chatte.
It's just pussy.
J'ai pêché aussi,
I fished too,
je n'ai rien eu
I didn't get anything.
et lui,
and he,
il a tapé un truc de 4 kilos.
He typed something four kilos.
Tu n'as rien pu tuer ?
You couldn't kill anything?
On ne t'aurait pas,
We wouldn't have you,
on l'a relâché.
We released him.
Oui,
Yes,
tu leur mets quand même
you still put them on
le mec avec qui
the guy with whom
on a fait la sortie,
We made the exit,
il prenait un soin
he was taking care of
vraiment,
Really,
vraiment vénère.
Really worshipping.
Je ne veux pas dire
I don't mean
que c'était un prince,
that he was a prince,
un prince des animaux non plus,
Nor a prince of animals,
mais je voyais qu'il mettait
But I could see he was wearing
vraiment un soin à ressortir.
really a care to come out.
Il dit là,
He says there,
vite,
Hurry,
fais photo,
Take a picture,
vite,
Hurry,
on le remet dans l'eau,
We put him back in the water,
il ne faut pas toucher,
Don't touch,
il faut prendre avec les mains mouillées.
You have to take with wet hands.
Ce qui est marrant,
Which is funny,
c'est que ce n'est pas le kill
It's not the kill.
qui l'intéressait.
who interested him.
Tu peux faire tout le même truc
You can do the same thing.
sans,
without,
parce qu'au final,
because in the end,
ce qui est marrant,
Which is funny,
c'est d'être anthropode,
It's to be anthropode,
de faire un peu de sport,
to do some sports,
d'être sur un bateau.
to be on a boat.
En fait,
Actually,
la pêche là-dedans,
fishing in there,
c'est presque accessoire.
It's almost accessory.
C'est ce que j'allais te dire.
That's what I was gonna tell you.
Le meilleur moment,
The best time,
c'est quand après,
When then,
on a vu des shots de rhum
We saw rum shots.
posées sur le bateau
placed on the vessel
et qu'on papotait
And that we were talking about
avec le mec et tout.
with the guy and everything.
Pour moi,
For me,
c'est ça.
That's right.
Voilà.
There.
Et pourquoi pas juste
And why not just
boire du rhum
drink rum
même sans prendre le bateau ?
Even without taking the boat?
C'est comme la chasse.
It's like hunting.
Si tu veux l'excitation de la chasse,
If you want the excitement of hunting,
tu traques l'animal
You track the animal.
et juste tu fais une photo.
And just make a picture.
Sauf qu'il y en a,
Except there are,
ils veulent le buter.
They want to kill him.
Tu fais du paintball
You do paintball
avec des potes en forêt.
with buddies in the woods.
Moi,
Me,
j'aimerais bien avoir
I wish I had
un chasseur,
a hunter,
un vrai chasseur
a true hunter
qui explique,
which explains,
au-delà du truc,
Beyond the thing,
la tradition.
tradition.
Je peux comprendre,
I can understand,
mais du coup,
But then,
ça explique pour tout,
That explains everything,
mais plus du gars
But more of the guy.
qui venait pas de la chasse
who didn't come from hunting
et qui s'est découvert
and discovered
une passion pour la chasse.
A passion for hunting.
Il y a un gars,
There's a guy,
j'ai un bon invité là-dessus,
I have a good guest on this,
c'est un type
He's a guy.
qui m'écrit souvent
who writes to me often
qui habite en Norvège
living in Norway
et c'est lui qui m'a envoyé
and he sent me
des chiffres sur la chasse
hunting figures
en disant,
saying,
bon,
All right,
ça a quand même
It still has
vachement diminué
Definitely diminished
les morts depuis 20 ans,
the dead for 20 years,
ce qui prouve
which proves
qu'on en a un peu plus parlé.
We talked about it a little more.
Et donc,
And so,
c'est vrai que je fais
I do.
un petit peu mon méa-coup de passe
A little bit of my pass-up
sur les chiffres
on figures
qu'on avait donnés
that we had given
et que c'est des gros enculés,
And they're big motherfuckers,
c'est vrai que ça baisse vachement.
It's true that it's falling a lot.
En plus,
Plus,
c'est un peu comme
It's kind of like
le nombre de morts
the number of deaths
par arme à feu aux Etats-Unis,
by firearms in the United States,
on oublie qu'il y a
we forget there's
beaucoup de suicides.
Many suicides.
Là,
There,
il y a beaucoup de chasseurs
There are many hunters
dans les accidents.
in accidents.
Donc bon,
So good,
finalement,
finally,
il y a beaucoup de chasseurs.
There are many hunters.
Dans les accidents
In accidents
qui sont comptés,
which are numbered,
il y a beaucoup d'entre eux.
There are many of them.
Ce qui fait que nous,
Which makes us,
on s'en bat un peu les coups
We're fighting a little bit.
et moi,
And me,
ce qu'on aime pas,
What we don't like,
c'est qu'il y a un pauvre cycliste
It's because there's a poor cyclist.
qui passe,
passing,
qui prend une balle.
who takes a bullet.
C'est vrai.
That's right.
Il y a quand même,
There's still,
je crois,
I think,
15 morts par an en chasse.
15 deaths a year hunting.
Ça a baissé,
It went down,
baissé,
decreased,
baissé quand même.
Still down.
Je disais que...
I was saying that...
Après,
Then,
parce que j'avais comparé ça
'Cause I compared that.
au terrorisme
Terrorism
et en vrai,
and in truth,
c'était genre 100 de moins
It was like 100 less.
sur les 20 dernières années
over the last 20 years
et je disais,
And I said,
en ratio de combien
in ratio of
on en a parlé dans les médias,
We talked about it in the media,
tu vois bien
You can see.
que ça collait pas.
It didn't work.
Il y avait beaucoup plus de morts
There were many more deaths
sur la route
on the road
que de morts du Covid
that of Covid's dead
et on n'en a pas parlé.
And we didn't talk about it.
Toujours qu'il y revienne.
He always comes back.
C'est vraiment un champion.
He's really a champion.
Il faudrait interdire les gens
People should be banned.
de conduire.
driving.
Je le crois,
I believe it,
il faudrait interdire les gens
people should be banned.
de parler du Covid.
to talk about the Covid.
Et blessé,
And wounded,
il y a combien ?
How many?
Je sais pas.
I don't know.
Je sais pas,
mais en tout cas,
But in any case,
les chiffres étaient moins gros
the figures were smaller
et en tout cas,
and in any case,
ils sont vraiment en baisse.
They're really down.
Donc soit les gens font gaffe,
So either people watch out,
soit voilà.
There you go.
Je voulais faire quand même
I wanted to do it anyway.
mon petit méa culpa.
My little mea culpa.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai un méa culpa à faire.
I've got a badass to do.
Ça y est,
That's it.
c'est parti.
Here we go.
Je crois que ça a été enlevé.
I think it was taken.
On prend un petit commentaire
We're taking a little comment.
dans la gueule,
in the mouth,
on s'en fermait la culpa ?
We're closing our asses?
Non,
No,
mais là,
But here,
il y avait des vrais chiffres.
There were real numbers.
Si on te prouve
If we prove you
que t'as dit de la merde,
You said shit,
si on dit peut-être
if we say maybe
qu'on dit de la merde
They say shit.
et qu'on te prouve
And we prove you
que t'as dit de la merde,
You said shit,
le moindre des choses,
the least,
c'est de le reconnaître.
That's to recognize.
Non,
No,
apparemment,
Apparently,
les pièges jaunes,
yellow traps,
c'était bien géré.
It was well managed.
Tu t'es fait défoncer ?
Did you get fucked?
Moi aussi,
Me too,
je prends beaucoup de messages.
I'm taking a lot of messages.
Mais j'ai dit,
But I said,
à mon avis,
In my opinion,
peut-être que je dis de la merde,
Maybe I say shit,
mais j'étais quand même
but I was still
assez sûr de moi.
Pretty sure of me.
En fait,
Actually,
comme quoi,
Like,
je reste toujours méfiant,
I'm still suspicious,
il faudrait que je travaille
I should work.
le dossier.
the file.
Ah,
il le est,
It is,
de toute façon,
Anyway,
il le est.
He is.
Mais,
But,
apparemment,
Apparently,
David Douillet n'a jamais utilisé
David Douillet never used
de voiture de luxe
luxury car
payée par les pièges jaunes
paid by yellow traps
et c'était une fake news.
And it was a fake news.
Et en tout cas,
And anyway,
David Douillet judo
David Doylet Judo
reste un des meilleurs jeux
remains one of the best games
de PlayStation.
PlayStation.
Ça,
That,
on ne va jamais.
We never go.
C'est l'un des meilleurs judokers
He's one of the best judokers
après Teddy Riner.
After Teddy Ringer.
Ben ouais,
Yeah,
il doit être assez mécontent.
He must be pretty unhappy.
Enfin,
Finally,
il doit être content
He must be happy.
et fier de Teddy,
and proud of Teddy,
mais derrière,
but behind,
il doit se dire,
He must say,
putain,
Fuck,
il est éclipsé
He's overshadowed.
alors que c'était le king.
While it was the king.
je pense qu'il est trop content
I think he's too happy.
qu'il n'y ait personne
there is no one
qui gagne Roland-Garros.
who wins Roland Garros.
Et que personne n'ait chanté
And nobody sang
en Slimar aussi.
Slimar too.
Il ne veut pas
He doesn't want to
que deux Roland-Garros
that two Roland-Garros
ni des gens qui chantent en Slimar.
Or people singing in Slimar.
Non,
No,
mais ça doit être un truc bizarre
But it must be a weird thing.
de ton égo
of your ego
et en même temps,
and at the same time,
tu veux que le sport avance,
You want sport to move forward,
j'en sais rien.
I don't know.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai des sources sûres
I have safe sources
de gens connus
of known people
qui connaissent des gens connus
who know known people
qu'on fait France 98.
France 98.
Ah,
ils étaient vénères.
They were worshippers.
En 2018,
In 2018,
ils n'étaient pas bien.
They weren't good.
Ils étaient contents,
They were happy,
mais en mode,
but in mode,
putain,
Fuck,
il y avait ce truc,
There was this thing,
on était les seuls et tout
We were the only ones and everything
et ça a baissé.
And it went down.
Ça a fait un peu
It did a little bit.
truc d'égo.
ego thing.
Bien sûr,
Of course,
c'est normal,
It's normal,
tu es les seuls champions du monde
You're the only world champions
et d'un coup,
And suddenly,
il y en a d'autres,
There are others,
ça t'éclipse un peu.
It eclipses you a little.
Ça y est,
That's it.
c'est la nouvelle génération.
It's the next generation.
Je comprends.
I get it.
Le pire étant ceux qui,
The worst is those who,
je pense beaucoup
I think a lot
à David Geno,
to David Geno,
vu qu'il est beau,
since he's beautiful,
ça va être mal interprété.
It's gonna be misinterpreted.
Mais il était
But he was
dans les meilleurs joueurs
in the best players
de Première Ligue
First League
et mais Jacquet n'aime pas trop,
And but Jacquet doesn't like it too much,
ça se passe mal.
It's going wrong.
Il l'a commenté.
He commented on it.
Il a commenté la finale
He commented on the final
pour la télé anglaise.
For English TV.
Il a vu les gens
He saw people
dans une équipe
in a team
où il aurait pu être.
where he could have been.
Ça c'est un peu dur.
That's a little hard.
Ça c'est un petit peu dur.
Ah là là.
Here.
Eh bien écoute,
Well, listen,
l'avantage c'est que nous,
The advantage is that we,
pas de problème là quoi.
No problem here what.
Ouais, ouais, ouais.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Quel cadeau ?
What gift?
J'étais en plaçant
I was placing
dès le CM2
from CM2
donc j'ai vu qu'on a compris
So I saw we got it.
que ça ne serait pas du...
It wouldn't be...
Justement,
Exactly,
dans les cadeaux,
in gifts,
là tu sais que je suis devenu,
Now you know I've become,
je l'ai dit à la fois
I said it at once
dans la live,
in the live,
je suis maintenant
I am now
officiellement
Officially
un revendeur à Vinted.
A dealer in Vinted.
Je suis à deux ventes maintenant.
I'm at two sales now.
Et je passe ma vie
And I spend my life
à acheter des trucs
buy stuff
et à les revendre.
and sell them.
Mais je sais,
But I know,
je ne devrais pas faire ça et tout.
I shouldn't do this and everything.
Pourquoi ?
Why?
Non mais parce que
No, but because
à chaque fois que je fais
every time I do
un autre truc
Another thing.
que les blagues,
that jokes,
vous dites,
you say,
fais des blagues à la place,
Make jokes instead,
arrête de perdre ton temps.
Stop wasting your time.
Ah non, non, vas-y.
No, no, go ahead.
Tu fais ce que tu veux.
You do whatever you want.
Non.
No.
Si ça t'inspire.
If it inspires you.
Pour une fois.
For once.
Non mais en plus,
No, but besides,
c'est un passe-temps
It's a hobby.
qu'on a avec ma meuf.
That we have with my girl.
Bref,
Anyway,
je trouve plein de trucs
I find a lot of stuff.
sur Vinted.
On Vinted.
Est-ce que ça se fait,
Does that happen,
tout en respectant
while respecting
les consignes du gouvernement apparemment,
the instructions of the government apparently,
d'acheter des cadeaux
buy gifts
de 15 en fait ?
15 actually?
Bah oui, oui,
Yeah, yeah,
c'est à la boîte maintenant.
It's in the box now.
Si ça fait plaisir.
If it makes you happy.
Mais est-ce qu'il n'y a pas
But isn't there?
un côté où les gens se disent
a side where people say
pas neuf ?
Not new?
Mais ça sent pas le chinois
But it doesn't smell like Chinese.
qu'il a fait.
He did.
Franchement,
Honestly,
ça fait vraiment cheap.
That's really cheap.
Tu t'offres un bouquin
You give yourself a book.
et c'est un peu corné.
And it's a little horny.
Oui, mais il faut que culturellement,
Yes, but culturally,
on se sorte de ça fait cheap
We're getting out of this.
parce que c'est comme ça
because it's like that
que le capitalisme nous baise.
Capitalism fucks us.
Parce que tant qu'on trouve ça cheap...
Because as long as we find it cheap...
Mais lui, il aime bien.
But he likes it.
Non mais ça fait cheap,
No, but it's cheap.
c'est...
It's...
Oui, non mais c'est ça.
Yeah, no, but that's it.
Il faut que culturellement,
Culturally,
on se sorte de ce truc.
We're getting out of this thing.
Alors il y a nous,
So there's us,
c'est facile parce que nous,
It's easy because we,
en vrai, il y a nous par exemple,
Actually, there's us, for example,
parce que nous,
because we,
on fait style machin du capitalisme
we're doing capitalism's style
et nous, on est bien contents
And we're happy.
que les gens,
that people,
ils consomment des places de spectacle.
They consume entertainment places.
Oui.
Yes.
Et nous, l'avantage,
And we, the advantage,
c'est vrai que c'est des matérialisés
It's true they're materialized.
et tout.
and everything.
Donc, nous, on peut jouer la carte.
So we can play the card.
C'est hyper écolo.
It's so green.
C'est écolo.
It's green.
C'est faux.
That's not true.
Il n'y a rien d'écolo
There's nothing green.
parce qu'on déplace des gens.
Because we're moving people.
C'est hyper écolo.
It's so green.
Non mais...
No, but...
C'est édic, c'est écolo, putain.
It's fucking ecological.
Ok, ok.
Okay, okay.
C'est toujours toi qui produit.
You always produce.
Non mais parce que,
No, but because,
par exemple,
for example,
Chaka Ponc,
ils arrêtent les tournées
They stop the tours
pour cette raison précise.
for this reason.
Parce qu'ils ont des tournées
Because they have tours
avec des avions.
with planes.
Moi, c'est écolo.
I'm green.
Vous, c'est moi écolo.
You're me green.
Il y a mille personnes.
There are a thousand people.
Moi, c'est écolo.
I'm green.
Non mais nous,
No, but we,
attends,
Wait,
moi, il n'y a pas de tourbus,
I don't have a bus,
il n'y a rien.
There's nothing.
Oui, mais il y a quand même
Yes, but there is still
mille personnes
thousand people
qui n'ont rien fait ce soir-là.
who didn't do anything that night.
Tout le monde prend la bagnole
Everybody take the car.
pour te voir.
To see you.
Pas forcément.
Not necessarily.
Et non, puisqu'on prend les théâtres
And no, since we take the theaters
les plus chers
Most expensive
qui sont en ville.
who are in town.
Oui, exactement.
Yes, exactly.
Et alors, les gens,
And then, people,
ils viennent de ville.
They're from town.
Ils n'habitent pas tous
They don't all live
dans le centre-ville, mon frère.
downtown, brother.
Bien sûr.
Sure.
J'ai joué au féminin à Bordeaux,
I played female in Bordeaux,
lui aussi.
So did he.
Quand tu draines
When you drain
mille personnes,
a thousand people,
tu as un impact écologique.
You have an ecological impact.
C'est évident.
It's obvious.
Mais à ce moment-là,
But then,
tu ne fais plus rien.
You don't do anything anymore.
Mais je suis d'accord.
But I agree.
Moi, je m'en rends.
I'm going.
L'impact est limité quand même.
The impact is still limited.
Il y a mille personnes
There's a thousand people
qui se déplacent à pied.
moving on foot.
Mais ne faisons pas genre
But let's not be like
on est les princes.
We're the princes.
Mais oui, oui, bien sûr.
Yes, yes, of course.
Mais les spectacles en soi,
But the shows themselves,
ce n'est pas écolo.
It's not green.
Ramener plein de gens
Bringing lots of people back
à un endroit,
one place,
ce n'est pas écolo.
It's not green.
À Noël,
At Christmas,
on ferait un truc d'occasion.
We'd do something used.
Moi, genre,
Me, like,
je crois petit à petit,
I think little by little,
ça va.
It's okay.
Après, je ne sais pas
Then I don't know.
si dans ma famille...
If in my family...
Oui, il y a des gens
Yes, there are people.
de ma famille,
of my family,
ils s'en foutraient.
They wouldn't care.
Je pense que les gens,
I think people,
peut-être les un peu plus âgés...
Maybe the older ones...
Déjà, le côté,
Already, the side,
tu sais,
You know,
faire le papier cadeau
make the gift paper
avec des trucs recyclés,
with recycled stuff,
moi, tu vois,
I, you know,
je le fais.
I do.
Moi, je m'en branle.
I don't care.
Moi, je peux le faire
I can do it.
avec du papier journal.
with newsprint.
Ouais, mais tu t'en bats les couilles.
Yeah, but you're fighting the balls.
Mais non,
But no,
mais on veut les beaux
But we want the beautiful
paquets cadeaux qui brillent.
gift packages that shine.
Moi, j'avoue que Noël,
I confess that Christmas,
c'est juste
It's just
on se retrouve.
We'll meet again.
On boit des coups,
We drink,
on fait des jeux,
We play games,
on parle.
We're talking.
Je n'ai pas besoin
I don't need to.
qu'il y ait tous les cadeaux,
that there are all the gifts,
tous les machins.
All the things.
Moi, j'aime bien rêver,
I like to dream,
quand même.
Still.
Ouais, moi, j'avoue que là...
Yeah, I admit that there...
Toi, t'es Disney,
You're Disney,
toi, t'es un gars,
You're a guy,
tu vas à New York,
You're going to New York,
t'es dans Times Square,
You're in Times Square,
tu rêves.
You dream.
Oui.
Yes.
Moi, Times Square,
Me, Times Square,
je me dis,
I'm thinking,
c'est la fin du monde.
It's the end of the world.
Donc voilà, chacun son truc.
So here's the thing.
Ouais, moi, je veux
Yeah, I want to.
l'arbre de Noël,
Christmas tree,
les boules, la crèche et tout,
the balls, the crib and everything,
tout ce qui est traditionnel,
all that is traditional,
les chants et tout.
songs and everything.
Ouais, mais j'aime bien.
Yeah, but I like it.
Mais parce que toi,
But because you,
c'est jésus.
It's jesus.
Oui, je sais,
Yeah, I know,
mais là, on parle du tout
But now we're talking at all.
du contraire.
on the contrary.
Le chant, la tradition,
Song, tradition,
une belle PlayStation 5
a beautiful PlayStation 5
bien neuve dans un papier,
new in a paper,
c'est pas la même chose.
It's not the same thing.
Quand j'étais gamin,
When I was a kid,
les cadeaux,
gifts,
c'était un truc de ouf
It was a wow thing.
d'ouvrir les cadeaux aujourd'hui.
to open the presents today.
Je suis content de voir
I'm glad to see
mes neveux et tout
my nephews and everything
et les nièces les ouvrir,
and the nieces open them,
genre...
Like...
Mais moi,
But me,
le cadeau en soi,
the gift in itself,
c'est pas le truc
It's not the thing.
le plus important.
most important.
Moi, j'y ai pensé,
I thought about it,
on me surprend,
I'm surprised.
je le sais pas,
I don't know,
il y a un gros Meta Quest,
There's a big Meta Quest,
les derniers putains
the last whores
de casques virtuels,
virtual helmets,
tout neuf,
brand new,
sous le sapin,
under the tree,
et mes frères,
and my brothers,
ils m'ont surpris
They caught me.
et je le pète un bout là.
And I'm going through it.
Que tu sortes vraiment
That you're really going out
plus de chez toi.
No more home.
Quoi ?
What?
En vrai,
Actually,
mais de toute façon,
But anyway,
je dis ça,
I say that,
c'est bon,
It's okay,
il est sur un 350,
He's on a 350,
je le fais sauter là,
I'm blowing him up there,
c'est sûr.
Sure.
Ah, ils sont qu'à 350 ?
Ah, they're just 350?
Ouais, ils sont à 350.
Yeah, they're 350.
C'est quoi ça ?
What is this?
C'est la fin.
It's the end.
C'est un casque
It's a helmet.
et il y a le cinéma
and there's cinema
chez toi, quoi.
At home.
C'est-à-dire que tu l'enlèves
That is, you take it off.
pour aller pisser
to pee
et encore non,
and still not,
parce que moi,
because I,
j'ai déjà essayé ces casques.
I already tried those helmets.
Il y a un mode
There's a fashion
où il y a des caméras
where there are cameras
qui peuvent te filmer
who can film you
ton anque autour.
Your anque around.
Donc, ça veut dire
So that means
que tu peux le garder
that you can keep it
pour aller pisser,
to go piss,
pisser et hop,
pee and hop,
renclencher le mode
restart mode
et tout.
and everything.
Tu peux ne plus jamais
You can never again
l'enlever.
Take it off.
C'est n'importe quoi.
That's bullshit.
MetaQuest ?
MetaQuest?
Ouais, c'est un des casques
Yeah, that's one of the helmets.
qui, vu que ça,
who, considering that,
ils sont arrivés
They're here.
à des prix à peu près potables,
at approximately potable prices,
je pense que cette année,
I think this year,
ça va bien, bien cartonner.
It's all right, it's all right.
Et puis, sans compter
And then, without counting
l'influence de Podcasos,
the influence of Podcasos,
là, on vient d'en faire
We just made it.
25 de plus.
25 more.
C'est sûr.
Sure.
Pourquoi, là,
Why, there,
on ne demande pas des sous ?
Aren't we asking for money?
C'est qui qui fait MetaQuest ?
Who's MetaQuest?
Franchement, un casque gratos,
Frankly, a free helmet,
ça me va.
That's fine with me.
Moi, si vous voulez,
If you want me,
j'en parle tous les jours.
I talk about it every day.
Envoyez les casques,
Send the helmets,
MetaQuest.
Ils sont blindés, Meta, là.
They're armored, Meta.
Ah bah oui, Meta.
Oh, yeah, Meta.
Attends, j'allais juste
Wait, I was just going
de capter ce qui c'était.
to capture what it was.
Oui, c'est Facebook, oui.
Yeah, it's Facebook, yeah.
Ah bah vas-y.
Ah, go ahead.
On est sûr que c'est bien, ça ?
Are we sure this is good?
J'ai l'impression
I feel
que c'était trop lourd.
It was too heavy.
Ils ont changé ?
Have they changed?
Bah là, je pense qu'ils sont arrivés.
Well, I think they're here.
Ils sont arrivés.
They're here.
En tout cas, moi,
Anyway, me,
je suis arrivé au stade
I got to the stadium.
où c'est bon,
Where it's good,
j'en fais péter un.
I'm kicking one.
Ça fait 2-3 ans.
It's been 2-3 years.
Là, je crois qu'ils sont arrivés
Now I think they're here.
au stade,
at the stage,
déjà en a testé un.
Already tested one.
C'est bon.
It's okay.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
350 reste un prix acceptable
350 remains an acceptable price
pour...
for...
Parce que même les pourris
Because even the rotten
que j'ai testés,
that I tested,
en plus, ils le vendent
Plus, they sell it.
avec Batman.
with Batman.
Il y a Batman.
There's Batman.
Qu'est-ce qu'il y a ?
What is it?
Faut faire la promo.
We have to promote.
Ouais, faut la faire maintenant,
Yeah, we gotta do it now,
c'est ça, ouais.
Yeah.
Alors, on va faire
Then we'll do
une petite pause pub
a little pub break
et après, on reprend le podcast.
And then we take back the podcast.
Une pause promotion.
A promotional break.
Mais c'est la fin.
But it's the end.
Non, c'est pas la fin.
No, it's not the end.
Alors, ouais, voilà.
So, yeah, that's it.
Justement, on parle de Noël.
Actually, we're talking about Christmas.
Venez nous voir en spectacle.
Come and see us on show.
On est en tournée
We're on tour.
dans toute la France.
throughout France.
Moi, je joue.
I'm playing.
Juste à Lyon
Just in Lyon
et le 29 décembre.
29 December.
Venez nous voir en spectacle,
Come and see us on show,
nous, le podcast.
We're the podcast.
Ah, podcast, bien sûr.
Ah, podcast, of course.
Parce qu'on est en tournée.
Because we're on tour.
Et l'autre qui pense qu'à ça.
And the other one who thinks about it.
C'est l'hôpitaliste.
He's the hospitalist.
Alors, bonne nouvelle,
So, good news,
on est complet à Toulouse.
We're full in Toulouse.
Voilà.
There.
Donc, on a mis
So, we put
le casino de Toulouse.
Toulouse casino.
C'est dans longtemps,
It's a long time,
mais les places
but places
partent particulièrement vite.
Leave especially fast.
Merci, les Toulousains.
Thank you, the Toulousans.
Bisto, ça y fait pas.
Bisto, that's not it.
C'est dans un an et demi,
It's in a year and a half,
on en a pourri.
We've rotted.
C'est la seule date
It's the only date.
qui part vraiment, vraiment vite.
Who's really leaving, really fast.
C'est vrai que Toulouse,
It's true that Toulouse,
ça consomme.
It consumes.
Donc, merci, les Toulousains.
So thank you, the Toulousans.
Lyon, pareil, ça part vite.
Lyon, the same thing, it leaves fast.
Donc, venez nous voir.
So, come see us.
Lille, on a remis une date
Lille, we handed a date
parce qu'on a fait deux dates.
Because we made two dates.
On a rajouté une séance.
We added a session.
C'est complet.
It's full.
On a remis une autre date.
We handed over another date.
On revient à Lille.
We're back in Lille.
Et évidemment, Poitiers,
And of course, Poitiers,
le 10 mars.
10 March.
Représente.
Representative.
On va pas vous mentir.
We're not gonna lie to you.
On l'avait un peu zappé,
We had a little bit of him,
celle-là.
This one.
On n'a pas trop fait de promo.
We didn't do too much promotion.
Elle est dans la journée.
She's in the daytime.
Je crois que ça se remplit quand même.
I think it's still filling up.
Mais bougez-vous
But move
qu'il y ait plus de monde.
There's more people.
Ouais, c'est ça, ouais.
Yeah, right, yeah.
Poitiers, Lille, Toulouse, Nantes.
Clermont-Melin,
on a toujours pas les dates, alors.
We still don't have the dates, then.
Et Clermont-Melin,
And Clermont-Melin,
on a pas les dates.
We don't have dates.
Donc, le back-home tour
So back home tour
commence chez Pierre.
Start at Pierre's.
Commence à Poitiers.
Start at Poitiers.
OK.
Okay.
Voilà, on verra.
Here we go.
Donc, voilà.
So that's it.
Et puis, mettez un petit pouce.
And then put on a little thumb.
Attends, attends, attends.
Wait, wait, wait.
Et puis voilà.
There you go.
Attends, attends, attends.
Wait, wait, wait.
Je veux un T-shirt.
I want a T-shirt.
Genre, vous m'avez fait un truc.
Like, you did something to me.
Genre, on joue tous
Like, we all play
dans nos villes natales.
in our native cities.
Ouais.
Yeah.
Que prendre une grande salle
What to take a big room
comme ça, c'est un peu con.
That way, it's kind of stupid.
Et on va l'avoir fait qu'à Poitiers.
And we're only gonna do it in Poitiers.
On le fait pas chez vous ?
Don't we do it at home?
Si, c'est en train.
Yes, it is.
OK.
Okay.
Parce que si ça floppe,
Because if it flops,
que ça floppe chez les trois.
It's all over the three.
Ah, t'inquiète, t'inquiète.
Ah, don't worry, don't worry.
Melin, ça arrive.
Melin, it happens.
Et Clermont,
And Clermont,
on est en discussion.
We're in discussion.
J'ai absolument un T-shirt
I absolutely have a T-shirt.
back-home tour
back home tour
avec juste les trois dates derrière.
with just the three dates behind.
Ça, c'est écolo,
This is green.
ça te faire faire des T-shirts ?
Does that make you make T-shirts?
Ah, mais moi, je suis pas écolo.
Oh, but I'm not a ecologist.
Moi, je veux un casque virtuel
I want a virtual helmet.
et ne plus vous voir.
And don't see you anymore.
Voilà.
There.
C'est peut-être ça, le secret.
Maybe that's the secret.
Est-ce qu'il y a des mauvais cadeaux ?
Are there any bad gifts?
Oui.
Yes.
Le spectacle d'Urbain.
Urbain's show.
Les gens sont tous ravis
People are all delighted
des critiques billets réduques.
Reducive note reviews.
T'imagines,
Imagine,
le nombre de personnes
the number of persons
couvrent les billets.
cover the tickets.
C'est qui ?
Who's that?
Allez, il va le faire avec moi aussi,
Come on, he'll do it with me too,
on t'inquiète pas.
Don't worry.
Tu as pas des chocolats plutôt ?
Don't you have chocolates?
Non, mais est-ce qu'il y a
No, but is there
des mauvais cadeaux ?
Bad gifts?
Forcément, oui.
I guess so.
T'as fait une blague de Diodo.
You made a joke about Diodo.
Oui, c'est vrai.
Yes, it is.
C'est la blague de Diodo
This is Diodo's joke.
sur les places d'Alice Emon.
on Alice Emon's squares.
Ah oui ?
Really?
C'est vrai, c'est vrai.
Right, right.
Tu sais, tu ne sais même plus
You know, you don't even know anymore.
tes copies comme éclatifs.
Your copies as sparkles.
Je ne sais même plus.
I don't even know.
Je ne connais plus mes classiques.
I don't know my classics anymore.
En même temps, je ne regarde pas
At the same time, I don't look
trop Diodo.
Too diodo.
J'ai regardé quelques trucs.
I looked at a few things.
Ah, c'est pour lui taper ses blagues.
Ah, it's to type his jokes.
Attends, il tape pas autre chose.
Wait, he doesn't type anything else.
Il est réhabilité maintenant.
He's rehabilitated now.
Il fait tous les médias maintenant.
He's doing all the media now.
Il a fait Legend, c'est bon.
He did Legend, it's okay.
On peut y aller.
We can go.
Quoi ?
What?
Il repart à la télé partout ?
He's going back on TV everywhere?
Pas à la télé, mais c'est dans pas longtemps.
Not on TV, but it's not long.
Ça y est, il est relâche.
That's it, he's loose.
C'est marrant ce truc de
It's funny that thing.
Ah, t'as volé une blague de Intel.
Ah, you stole an Intel joke.
Genre, c'est tellement une blague
Like, this is so much a joke.
de première intention.
of first intention.
Genre, ah, j'ai des billets,
Like, ah, I got tickets,
t'as pas des chocolats.
You don't have chocolates.
Non, mais tu sais, ça,
No, but you know, that,
c'est un autre truc.
It's another thing.
Il y a un lien, un nom que je ne sais pas.
There's a connection, a name I don't know.
Mais tu l'as vu,
But you saw him,
c'est sur ta vidéo d'eau,
It's on your water video,
c'est storé quelque part dans ton cerveau.
It's stored somewhere in your brain.
Tu crois que c'est toi,
You think it's you,
mais c'est plus toi.
But it's not you anymore.
Ah oui, inconsciemment.
Oh yes, unconsciously.
C'est pour ça que l'obie comique,
That's why comic obituary,
des fois, c'est de la merde.
Sometimes it's shit.
Parce que des fois,
Because sometimes,
tu le fais sans le savoir.
You don't know.
Mais c'est aussi très possible
But it's also very possible.
parce que pour moi,
because to me,
c'est une blague super simple.
It's a super simple joke.
Oui, mais c'est exactement
Yeah, but it's exactly.
comme il l'a dit.
Like he said.
Je te jure que t'as vu cette vidéo.
I swear you saw that video.
De toute façon, là,
Anyway,
c'est fini les rôles de vannes
It's over the valve roles.
avec toutes les...
with all the...
On en parle au second.
We'll talk to the second.
Mais juste,
But just,
c'est avec tous les face cams
It's with every face cams
et tout,
and all,
que maintenant,
that now,
tous les humoristes,
all comedians,
c'est normal,
It's normal,
ils se filment,
They're spinning,
faire des petits skèches
make little dryers
sur ça.
on this.
Tu peux avoir un gars
You can have a guy.
qui te dit,
Telling you,
mais on s'en branle.
But we don't give a shit.
Tu peux avoir des gens
You can have people.
où tu te dis,
Where you think,
ah bah là,
Ah, there.
il a tapé là.
He typed there.
Moi, j'irais même plus vriller,
I'm not even going to spin anymore.
je crois.
I think so.
Des fois,
Sometimes,
je vois passer des trucs,
I see things go through,
je me dis,
I'm thinking,
putain, quand même,
Fuck, still,
je trouve ça...
I find this...
Mais vas-y,
But go ahead,
t'en fiche.
You don't care.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
ça sert à rien.
It's useless.
Enfin bref,
Anyway,
ça sert à rien,
It's useless.
j'ai tout noté
I wrote it down.
dans un petit carnet.
in a little notebook.
Non, mais si je vois
No, but if I see
un truc vraiment genre
Something really like
énorme,
huge,
peut-être,
Maybe,
mais je sais pas.
But I don't know.
Je sais qu'il y a des gars
I know there are guys.
qui disent blague 1,
Who say joke 1,
blague 2,
joke 2,
comme je fais,
as I do,
on m'a dit.
I was told.
Oui, oui,
Yes, yes,
je l'ai dit tout de suite,
I said it right away,
moi.
Me.
J'allais voir le mec,
I was going to see the guy,
je lui ai dit,
I told him,
ouais, ça c'est vraiment,
Yeah, that's really,
c'est pas toi ça.
It's not you.
Mais bon,
But, well,
je crois qu'il a arrêté
I think he stopped.
de le faire.
to do so.
J'ai fait mon petit justicier,
I did my little vigilante,
mais je le fais vraiment
But I really do.
que pour toi.
Only for you.
Moi, quand je vois un gars
Me, when I see a guy
qui pique un truc,
Stinging something,
que ça ressemble à moi,
that it looks like me,
je note,
I note,
et après,
and then,
je lui pique un truc,
I'll take something from him.
et puis j'ai un truc qui gomme,
And then I've got something that erases,
je lui dis,
I tell him,
j'ai le droit,
I have the right,
j'en avais le droit à une.
I had the right to one.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
toi tu joues pas ça,
You don't play that,
j'en avais le droit à une.
I had the right to one.
Non, mais,
No, but,
je pense malgré tout,
I still think,
peut-être que tu as raison,
Maybe you're right,
mais qu'il y a des blagues
But there are jokes
qui sont tellement simples
which are so simple
que tout le monde
that everyone
les a à peu près.
About got them.
Oui,
Yes,
et puis de toute façon,
And then anyway,
les gens ne comprennent pas,
people don't understand,
enfin,
Finally,
c'est fini,
It's over,
il y a un moment,
a moment ago,
des fois tu fais une blague,
Sometimes you make a joke,
et il faut accepter
and we must accept
que tu l'as donné
that you gave it
à l'humanité.
to humanity.
Maintenant,
Now,
quand tu as dit un truc bien,
When you said something good,
et bien,
Well,
il y a un moment,
a moment ago,
les gens...
People...
Là,
There,
j'ai vu Christophe Furious,
I saw Christophe Furious,
l'entraîneur de l'ASM,
the ASM coach,
mais qui était,
but who was,
c'est le gros avec des lunettes,
It's the fat one with glasses,
incroyable.
Incredible.
Bref,
Anyway,
on a gagné avec Clermont
We won with Clermont
parce qu'on avait gagné
because we won
à l'extérieur
Outside
et on a gagné à domicile.
And we won at home.
Il dit,
He says,
voilà,
There you go.
parce que c'est bien
because it's good
de gagner à domicile derrière
win at home behind
parce que sinon,
because otherwise,
si tu gagnes à l'extérieur,
If you win outside,
si tu gagnes pas à domicile,
If you don't win at home,
c'est un peu si tu fais
It's a bit if you do
un slow avec ta sœur.
A slow ride with your sister.
Voilà,
There you go.
donc,
So,
c'est vraiment le truc,
It's really the thing,
tu danses un slow
you dance a slow
avec ta sœur,
with your sister,
voilà,
There you go.
le truc de bof.
The bof thing.
Et c'est Maradona,
And it's Maradona,
en fait,
Actually,
qui avait dit ça,
who said that,
qui lui-même a dû le piquer
who himself had to sting him
en Argentine,
in Argentina,
donc plein de gens disent,
So many people say,
c'est Maradona,
It's Maradona,
c'est juste que maintenant,
It's just now,
c'est une blague,
This is a joke.
c'est une expression.
It's an expression.
Christophe Furio,
c'est pas humoriste.
It's not humorous.
Il a fait une reprise,
He took over,
quoi.
What.
Oui,
Yes,
voilà.
There.
Mais non,
But no,
mais je veux dire,
But I mean,
c'est plus une reprise,
It's more of a recovery,
c'est comme si je dis,
It's like I say,
Pierre qui roule,
Stone rolling,
c'est pas mou,
It's not soft,
ça vient gagner.
It's winning.
Non,
No,
ça va trop loin,
It goes too far,
c'est genre,
It's like,
tu dis,
You say,
cependant,
However,
je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
cependant,
However,
il y a déjà un mec
There's already a guy.
qui l'a dit à la télé.
who said it on TV.
Oui,
Yes,
c'est la semaine dernière.
It's last week.
Inventez vos propres langages,
Invent your own languages,
sinon.
Otherwise.
À un moment,
At some point,
Kim Bourlet.
Il n'y a que toi.
It's just you.
Il y a aussi Franck Dubosc
There's also Franck Dubosc
dans son premier DVD.
on his first DVD.
Elle est dedans,
She's in there,
quoi ?
What?
Non,
No,
c'est pas Kim Bourlet.
It's not Kim Bourlet.
Pas du tout.
Not at all.
Il y a un mot,
There's a word,
tu mets dedans.
You put in it.
Ah,
c'est 110 kilos.
It's 110 pounds.
Eh ben oui.
Well, yes.
Oh ben d'accord.
Okay.
Ah ben attends.
Wait.
Mais c'est un autre jeu de mots.
But it's another pun.
C'est deux grands auteurs
They're two great authors.
qui font un sketch
who do a sketch
avec un date
with a date
et une autre grosse
and another big
et un jeu de mots.
And a pun.
Je t'en parle,
I'm telling you,
tu vois,
See,
genre,
Like,
c'est un truc,
It's a thing,
moi,
Me,
je n'ai jamais vu Franck Dubosc.
I've never seen Frank Dubosc.
Je n'ai jamais vu,
I've never seen,
donc tu ne peux pas dire
So you can't say
t'as piqué avant de...
You stole before you...
T'avais jamais vu ce truc
You've never seen this thing before
qu'on avait tous vu,
that we all saw,
petit ?
Kid?
Mais moi,
But me,
tout ce que vous faites,
everything you do,
c'est-à-dire,
that is,
regardez les sketchs,
Look at the sketches,
on a des Américains
We have Americans.
et tout ça,
and all that,
je ne fais rien de tout ça.
I don't do any of this.
Je regarde c'est haut.
I'm looking up.
À l'époque,
Back then,
il y avait Dubosc et Samoon,
There was Dubosc and Samoon,
c'est les deux DVD,
It's both DVDs,
on s'avait tous vu.
We all saw each other.
Moi,
Me,
je l'ai vu tard,
I saw him late,
ce truc-là.
That thing.
Mais j'ai jamais,
But I never,
encore maintenant,
Still now,
je n'ai pas vu.
I didn't see.
Je ne sais même pas.
I don't even know.
Enfin,
Finally,
c'est toi qui m'en as parlé
You told me about it.
de Sandy et machin,
Sandy and stuff,
tu me l'as déjà dit
You already told me.
et je n'ai jamais vu ce sketch.
And I've never seen that sketch before.
Et je...
And I...
Tu peux avoir les mêmes idées,
You can have the same ideas,
en fait.
Actually.
Non, non, mais...
No, no, but...
C'est tout.
That's it.
Mais donc,
But so,
je peux faire un sketch...
I can do a sketch...
Vas-y, battez-vous,
Go ahead, fight,
putain,
Fuck,
j'en ai marre.
I'm sick of it.
J'ai envie de vous faire un gueule.
I want to make you look like a jerk.
Donc,
So,
je peux faire un sketch
I can do a sketch.
avec un date,
with a date,
avec une grosse
with a big
et je trouve un autre jeu de mots.
And I find another pun.
Mais bien sûr.
Of course.
Allez,
Come on.
c'est parti.
Here we go.
Elsa,
pas Elsa,
Not Elsa,
Salade en tout cas,
Salad, anyway,
c'est parti.
Here we go.
Bon courage.
Good luck.
Qu'est-ce qu'on fait ?
What do we do?
On trouve des...
We find...
Waouh,
Wow,
ce n'est pas une bonne idée.
It's not a good idea.
Si,
Yes,
non,
No,
je ne suis pas sûr.
I'm not sure.
Non,
No,
ce n'est pas une bonne idée.
It's not a good idea.
Mais on est tous en train
But we're all on the train.
d'en chercher,
to look for them,
là,
There,
quand même.
Still.
Là,
There,
je suis sérieusement...
I'm serious...
Et moi,
And me,
en plus,
in addition,
ce truc-là,
That thing,
du jeu de mots,
the play of words,
c'était une meuf
She was a girl.
qui s'appelait comme ça
which was called
dans mon lycée
in my high school
et c'est moi
And it's me
qui l'avais renommée comme ça
who had known him like that
et ça avait buzzé
and it buzzed
dans tout le lycée,
all over high school,
les gens...
People...
Mais c'est très grave,
But it's very serious,
ça s'appelle du harcèlement scolaire.
It's called school harassment.
C'est du harcèlement scolaire.
It's school harassment.
Mais je ne l'avais pas fait exprès,
But I didn't do it on purpose,
mais la blague était tellement bonne
But the joke was so good
que les gens la reprenaient.
People would take her back.
Et elle me déteste,
And she hates me,
c'est sûr qu'elle me déteste.
She certainly hates me.
Oui, c'est très grave.
Yes, it's very serious.
Mais franchement,
But frankly,
si tu m'entends,
If you hear me,
Kim,
je le suis désolé.
I'm sorry.
Derrière les chips.
Behind the chips.
Non,
No,
c'est vrai.
That's right.
Putain,
Fuck,
moi aussi,
Me too,
tu sais,
You know,
il y a des trucs
There's stuff.
sur le harcèlement scolaire,
on school harassment,
où tu as des gens,
where you have people,
des fois,
sometimes,
ils arrivent,
They're coming,
ils disent,
They say,
ouais,
Yeah,
je me suis harcelé de ouf
I've been harassing myself
et tout,
and all,
et sûrement,
And surely,
il y a des gens,
There are people,
je pense vraiment,
I really think,
ils prenaient vraiment la sauce,
They really took the sauce,
un truc de ouf.
Something crazy.
La plupart,
Most,
on était un peu dans les deux.
We were a little in both.
Moi,
Me,
il y a eu des moments
There were moments
où je prenais vraiment la sauce,
where I really took the sauce,
parce que j'étais vraiment dégueulasse,
Because I was really gross,
mais je me défendais quand même
but I was still defending myself
et des fois,
and sometimes,
j'arrivais à m'en sortir
I could make it.
avec les vannes et tout
with valves and everything
et il y a deux,
and there are two,
trois fois,
three times,
où je n'étais pas un prince
where I wasn't a prince
avec des gens aussi.
With people too.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
ça pense.
I think so.
Et moi,
And me,
ça m'est revenu
It came back to me.
et j'ai eu deux exemples,
and I had two examples,
tu vois,
See,
et il y a un gars,
And there's a guy,
j'ai cherché sur Internet,
I searched the Internet,
je n'arrive pas à le retrouver,
I can't find him,
mais j'aimerais vraiment lui écrire.
But I'd really like to write to him.
Je n'ai jamais eu des trucs tapés,
I've never had anything typed,
mais c'était des trucs genre...
But it was stuff like...
Tu ne le retrouves pas car il est mort ?
You can't find him because he's dead?
Non,
No,
non,
mec,
man,
arrête,
Stop,
là,
There,
c'est une blague que tu fais
This is a joke you're making
qui me fait bien bader,
who makes me do well,
mais je n'espère pas.
But I hope not.
Non,
No,
parce qu'après,
because after,
c'est des gars,
They're guys,
il était doué à l'école
He was good at school.
et je crois qu'après,
And I think after,
il s'en est bien sorti.
He did well.
C'était genre,
It was like,
un jour,
One day,
au self,
self,
il venait avec nous,
He was coming with us,
mais personne n'était copain avec lui,
But nobody was friends with him,
on ne l'aimait pas trop
We didn't like him too much.
parce qu'on n'avait rien à lui dire
because we had nothing to say to him
et tout.
and everything.
Et un jour,
And one day,
je lui ai dit,
I told him,
vas-y,
Go on,
aujourd'hui,
today,
tu ne manges pas avec nous.
You don't eat with us.
Et il est parti,
And he left,
il a mangé tout seul
He ate himself.
et je me suis dit,
And I thought,
j'y repensais quelques semaines après
I was thinking about it a few weeks later.
des gars qui te mettent
guys who put you on
un peu d'écoute,
A little listening,
les gars qui,
Guys who,
les troisièmes
Third
qui venaient dans scooter,
coming in scooter,
qui me foutaient à l'amande
Who were screwing me with almonds
un peu,
A little,
je ne me suis jamais fait raqueter,
I've never been caught,
mais j'ai déjà pris des coups de pression.
But I've already taken some pressure.
C'est fou,
This is crazy.
les gens en collège,
people in college,
je crois qu'ils sont plus grands
I think they're bigger.
pour toujours.
forever.
Mais est-ce que c'est galace ?
But is it gallacious?
Alors que c'est vraiment,
While it really is,
dans quatre ans,
in four years,
moi,
Me,
j'ai un pote,
I have a friend,
un gars,
A guy,
il était en troisième,
He was in third place,
il faisait chier un petit sixième,
He was shitting a little sixth,
un jour,
One day,
de nulle part,
out of nowhere,
clairement,
clearly,
il y a un gars qui lui fait,
There's a guy who makes him,
eh,
Uh,
pssst,
et pas,
and not,
il lui met une énorme patate
He puts a huge potato on her.
et c'était un sixième
And it was a sixth
qui faisait chier
Who was shitting
il y a quatre ans,
Four years ago,
sauf que c'était devenu
except it had become
une montagne
a mountain
et il ne lui a pas dit,
And he didn't tell her,
au fait,
By the way,
tu m'as un peu harcelé,
You harassed me a little,
ça allait très vite,
It was going very fast,
il a dit,
He said,
tiens,
Here,
bam,
patate dans les dents.
potato in the teeth.
Mais ceux-là,
But these,
ceux qui ont vraiment été
those who really have been
les gros bullies,
big bullies,
je pense qu'il y en a,
I think there are,
c'est devenu des top meards
They've become top-class.
et tout,
and all,
mais je pense qu'il y en a,
But I think there are,
après,
then,
ils ont juste grandi,
They just grew up,
ils sont devenus plus sages,
they have become wiser,
et il y en a,
and there are,
ils doivent avoir des regrets.
They must have regrets.
Moi,
Me,
j'en connais un en tout cas.
I know one anyway.
Il y a une justice quand même.
There's justice anyway.
La plupart des gens
Most people
qui faisaient chier
Who was shitting
au collège,
in college,
lycée,
High school,
c'est,
That's,
en tout cas,
in any case,
de ceux que j'ai,
Of those I have,
100%,
c'est vraiment des échecs.
It's really chess.
Est-ce qu'ils ne venaient pas de milieu ?
Didn't they come from the middle?
Et il va checker le Facebook
And he'll check Facebook
toutes les semaines.
Every week.
Et ça me fait vraiment plaisir,
And I really like it,
c'est un peu la revanche sur la vie.
It's a little revenge on life.
Ça ne devrait pas te faire plaisir
It shouldn't please you.
si tu étais un grand sage.
If you were a great wise man.
Tu devrais dire,
You should say,
pourquoi ces gens
Why these people
se comportaient comme ça ?
Behaving like that?
Peut-être qu'ils venaient aussi
Maybe they were coming too.
de milieu,
medium,
enfin moi,
I mean,
en tout cas,
in any case,
ceux dont je me rappelle,
those I remember,
ils venaient de milieu
They came from the middle
où je pense que des patates,
where I think potatoes,
ils en prenaient déjà pas mal
They were already taking a lot of it.
à la baraque.
To the barracks.
Et peut-être qu'ils se comportaient
And maybe they were acting
comme des connards ici
Like assholes in here.
parce que c'était la merde chez eux.
'Cause it was shit in their house.
Non, mais j'en sais rien.
No, but I don't know.
Non, mais c'est ce que j'aime,
No, but that's what I like,
c'est cette scission
It's that split.
des valeurs gauche.
left values.
Je te donne un exemple.
I'll give you an example.
On est tous responsables
We're all responsible.
de notre action
of our action
et il y a toujours une explication.
And there's always an explanation.
Je l'aime ça.
I like it.
Je te donne un exemple.
I'll give you an example.
Il m'est arrivé,
It happened to me,
mec,
man,
j'ai jamais eu de brouille
I've never had any trouble.
alors que j'étais vraiment
when I was really
tout pourri au collège
all rotten in college
et au lycée.
and high school.
Il m'est arrivé une fois
It happened to me once
un truc,
Something,
je n'ai pas compris.
I don't understand.
Trois mecs que je connaissais
Three guys I knew
qui un jour,
who one day,
qui habite juste à côté
who lives next door
un peu d'un quartier.
A little bit of a neighborhood.
Et moi, j'étais au lycée.
And I was in high school.
Ils étaient ailleurs,
They were somewhere else,
je ne les voyais plus.
I couldn't see them anymore.
Et un jour, je ne sais pas,
And one day, I don't know,
ils ont commencé.
They started.
Ils m'ont croisé dans la rue.
They ran into me on the street.
Ils m'ont mis un jour
They put me on one day.
de coup de pression.
pressure.
Ils étaient trois.
There were three of them.
Et moi, je me suis marrant au courant.
And I had fun knowing.
Et du coup, les gars,
And so, guys,
ils se sont dit
They said
putain, on a le power sur lui.
Fuck, we got the power on him.
Et un jour,
And one day,
ils sont venus sonner
They came to ring
à l'interphone chez OAM.
Intercom at OAM.
Chez OAM,
At OAM,
ça aurait pu être ma mère
It could have been my mother.
qui décroche.
Picking up.
Ils disent,
They say,
ouais, vas-y, vas-y.
Yeah, go on, go on.
On va t'attendre
We'll wait for you.
à la sortie du collège,
on leaving college,
tu as du lycée et tout.
You have high school and everything.
On va te fracasser et tout.
We'll break you and everything.
Je dis, putain,
I'm saying, fucking,
je ne sais même pas
I don't even know.
pourquoi ils font ça.
Why they do that.
Juste qu'ils voulaient
Just that they wanted
te faire chier.
Fuck you.
Et je dis,
And I say,
non, mais là,
No, but here,
vas-y, je ne peux pas,
Go ahead, I can't,
je ne descends pas.
I'm not going down.
Ils reviennent
They're coming back
mettre un coup d'interphone et tout.
Put on an intercom and everything.
Ils disent,
They say,
on va venir tous les jours.
We'll come every day.
Et je dis,
And I say,
tu sais quoi ?
You know what?
Je descends.
I'm coming down.
S'il faut,
If you have to,
ils me pètent la gueule.
They're fucking with me.
Mais après,
But then,
moi, je ne veux pas
I don't want to.
qu'un jour,
one day,
il y ait ma dalle.
There's my slab.
Je ne sais pas.
I don't know.
Je descends.
I'm coming down.
Ils disent,
They say,
vas-y, viens,
Come on, come on.
on va derrière.
We're going back.
Je dis,
I say,
c'est quoi ?
What is it?
Viens,
Come on,
on va derrière.
We're going back.
Et là,
And there,
je n'ai même plus peur.
I'm not even scared anymore.
Les gars,
Guys,
tu sais quoi ?
You know what?
Ils sont trois.
There are three of them.
Donc, le mieux,
So, the best,
je me fais vite déboîter
I'm getting busted.
parce que si je me défends,
because if I defend myself,
je risque de prendre
I might take it.
encore plus cher.
even more expensive.
C'est vraiment trop con.
It's so stupid.
Et là,
And there,
je me rappelle,
I remember,
le premier,
the first,
il arrive et il met un coup.
He's coming and he's kicking.
Et genre,
And like,
son coup,
his shot,
il est nul à chier.
He sucks.
Mais vraiment.
But really.
Alors,
So,
c'est un grand.
It's a big one.
Il met un coup,
He's kicking,
mais moi,
But me,
direct,
je fais,
I do,
ah,
mon oeil.
My eye.
Mauvais acteur.
Bad actor.
Et les gars,
And guys,
ne pouvaient pas me fracasser.
Couldn't break me.
Et ils arrêtent et tout.
And they stop and everything.
Et ils me disent,
And they tell me,
ah,
vas-y,
Go on,
ça va ?
You okay?
Je dis,
I say,
c'est bon,
It's okay,
maintenant,
Now,
tu as compris.
You got it.
Compris quoi ?
Got what?
Je fais le début,
I'm doing the beginning,
je ne comprends pas
I don't understand.
ce que vous voulez.
Whatever you want.
Et après,
And then,
les gars,
Guys,
ils ont tracé,
they've traced,
ils ne m'ont plus jamais
They never have me again.
refait chier.
Fuck it again.
Et j'ai recroisé un des mecs,
And I ran into one of the guys,
genre,
Like,
cinq ou dix ans plus tard,
five or ten years later,
à Paris,
in Paris,
tu vois,
See,
par hasard,
by chance,
dans une soirée.
in a night.
Je le reconnais propre sur lui,
I recognize him clean on him,
méga bien et tout.
Big good and all.
Je dis,
I say,
salut,
Hi,
on se connaît et tout.
We know each other and everything.
Il me dit,
He tells me,
ouais,
Yeah,
tu sais,
You know,
ces gars,
These guys,
je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
excuse-moi,
Excuse me,
on était cons et tout.
We were stupid and everything.
Vraiment,
Really,
je suis désolé.
I'm sorry.
Et je crois qu'il était sincère
And I think he was sincere.
et que c'est un gars,
And he's a guy,
ça le hantait.
It haunted him.
Je n'étais pas leur coup d'essai.
I wasn't their shot.
Ils ont eu une petite période
They had a little time
un peu d'arc,
a little bow,
je pense qu'ils ont fait de la merde.
I think they did shit.
Tu lui as quand même
You still got him.
une patate ?
A potato?
Non,
No,
j'aurais pu.
I could have.
J'étais quand même mieux maintenant,
I was still better now,
mais lui,
But he,
il n'était pas mal aussi.
He wasn't bad too.
Mais j'ai eu aucune envie,
But I didn't want to,
en fait.
Actually.
C'est que le mec,
It's just the guy,
il était vraiment sympa
He was really nice.
et il avait l'air vraiment sincère.
And he looked really sincere.
Bim.
Écoute,
Look,
on s'en sent.
It feels like it.
Je ne veux pas faire type,
I don't want to be a guy,
j'en ai mis quelques-unes,
I put on a few,
des patates,
potatoes,
tout de suite,
Now,
tu ne sens pas forcément un champion.
You don't necessarily feel a champion.
J'y pense,
I'm thinking about it,
moi,
Me,
j'y avais des bastons au rugby.
I had rugby batons there.
Si les gens,
If people,
et c'est marrant
And it's funny.
parce qu'il y a beaucoup ça
'Cause there's a lot of that
en ce moment,
right now,
des gens qui aiment bien
People who like it
la bagarre et tout,
fight and everything,
même les bagarres de rue,
Even street fights,
les gars,
Guys,
je ne sais pas si vous en avez vu,
I don't know if you saw any,
moi,
Me,
j'en ai vu,
I saw some,
c'est marrant avant,
It's fun before,
en fait.
Actually.
Cinq secondes après,
Five seconds later,
tout le monde fait,
Everyone does,
mais c'est horrible,
But it's horrible,
en fait.
Actually.
Ah non,
Oh, no, no.
si c'est cadré,
If it's set,
genre,
Like,
si c'est du sport,
If it's sports,
mais le sport,
but sport,
ça fait pour ça.
That's why.
Mais même,
But even so,
tu vois,
See,
j'ai vu un truc de Joe Rogan
I saw something from Joe Rogan.
qui dit qu'il a arrêté le taekwondo
who says he arrested the taekwondo
parce qu'il met un gros,
Because he's putting on a big one,
à un moment,
at one point,
le gars est fort,
The guy's strong,
il lui met un énorme kick,
He puts a huge kick on him,
il dit,
He says,
j'ai mis un tellement gros coup
I put on such a big shot.
que mon talon avait mal
that my heel was in pain
quand j'ai fait sauter sa mâchoire.
When I blew his jaw.
Le gars,
The guy,
il est tombé par terre,
He fell to the ground,
il ne s'est pas relevé,
he didn't get up,
il est parti en ambulance,
He left in an ambulance,
j'ai eu peur qu'il soit mort.
I was afraid he was dead.
Je suis allé parler
I went to talk.
à mon maître de taekwondo
to my taekwondo master
qui lui dit,
who tells him,
bon ben là,
There you go.
le gars,
the guy,
il ne se relevait pas
he didn't get up.
et le mec,
And the guy,
c'est un chinois-américain,
He's a Chinese-American,
je pense,
I think,
il lui a juste dit,
He just told her,
sometimes,
they die.
C'est tout.
That's it.
Et il a dit,
And he said,
ma carrière de taekwondo
my Taekwondo career
était finie.
was over.
J'ai compris que je pouvais
I realized I could
buter un mec,
Killing a guy,
que je n'avais pas ce truc-là
I didn't have that thing.
et c'est fini.
And it's over.
Je suis devenu nul
I got sucked
et j'ai arrêté
and I quit
parce qu'en fait,
because in fact,
tu es là,
You're here,
tu fais du sport,
You play sports,
tu déconnes,
You're kidding.
mais t'imagines,
But you can imagine,
tu mets un placage cathédral.
You put on a cathedral veneer.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai vu des mecs au rugby
I saw guys at the rugby.
les samedis faire des placages cathédrales
Saturdays make cathedral veneers
à des gars.
To guys.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai vu mon pote,
I saw my buddy,
il est tombé sur le cervical.
He fell on the cervix.
J'ai dit,
I said,
mais si ce type-là,
But if that guy,
il avait buté,
he had shot,
mais c'est terminé.
But it's over.
Et j'ai arrêté immédiatement
And I stopped immediately
le rugby.
Rugby.
Je lui ai dit,
I told him,
je ne vais pas me prendre
I'm not gonna catch myself.
un placard par un connard
A closet by an asshole
tout bourré.
All drunk.
Tu te rends compte ?
Do you realize?
La carrière qu'il aurait eue.
The career he would have had.
Ouais,
Yeah,
mais toi,
But you,
tu n'es plus ce sport
You're not that sport anymore.
pas contact.
No contact.
Vélo,
Bicycle,
il ne faut pas tomber.
Don't fall.
Il vient de tomber,
He just fell,
en fait,
Actually,
il ne vous l'a pas dit,
He didn't tell you,
mais il vient de se gaufrer.
But he just waffled.
Ce n'est pas dangereux.
It's not dangerous.
Il a failli avoir
He almost got
l'opération des dents.
Tooth surgery.
Grato,
c'est bon.
It's okay.
Tout ça,
All this,
c'est pas bien.
It's not good.
Dis pourquoi tu es tombé.
Tell me why you fell.
Parce que je faisais une story
Because I was doing a story.
d'un bateau,
a boat,
il y a marqué franjo derrière.
There's franjo in the back.
C'est hallucinant.
It's amazing.
C'est bien,
That's good,
c'est un signe de Dieu
It's a sign of God.
auquel je ne crois pas
I don't think so.
qui t'a dit,
who told you,
tu es trop sur toi-même,
You're too much on yourself,
tu es trop sur les réseaux,
You're too much on the networks,
tu es trop sur ton image.
You're too much in your image.
Tu es par la quête du buzz.
You're looking for buzz.
C'est beau.
It's beautiful.
J'ai la vidéo,
I got the video,
c'est lamentable.
It's lamentable.
Tu l'as la vidéo.
You got the video.
Où je tombe.
Where I fall.
Il va la mettre en ligne,
He'll put it online,
il va buzzer de ouf.
He's going to buzz off.
Non,
No,
tu vas la mettre en ligne.
You're gonna put it online.
Parce que c'est nul.
Because it sucks.
Je me boîte
I'm running away.
et on voit.
And we see.
Il y a un bruit ?
Is there a noise?
Il y a...
There's...
Ah bah je veux le voir.
I want to see him.
C'est quoi ?
What is it?
Attends,
Wait.
tu joues quand tu te sens.
You play when you feel.
Combien qu'il la met en ligne ?
How much does he put it online?
C'est sûr,
Sure,
il va la mettre en ligne.
He'll put it online.
Il va la regarder,
He'll look at her,
il va la lire.
He'll read it.
Davidson,
vidéo.
video.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai un souvenir de Bully.
I have a memory of Bully.
Quand j'étais au collège,
When I was in high school,
j'ai acheté des boîtes,
I bought boxes,
c'était encore les francs à l'époque.
It was still the francs back then.
Putain,
Fuck,
ça ne nous rajeunit pas.
It's not rejuvenating us.
De bonbons,
Sweets,
3 francs
et je les revendais 10
and I sold them 10
à l'école.
at school.
T'es déjà le business.
You're already the business.
Donc,
So,
ouais.
Yeah.
Waouh !
Wow!
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
d'accord.
Okay.
Et moi,
And me,
je faisais de l'argent comme ça.
I was making money like that.
Et surtout qu'en plus,
And most importantly,
mes parents,
My parents,
parfois,
Sometimes,
ils m'offraient les boîtes
They offered me the boxes.
donc je faisais top marge.
So I was doing top margin.
Jamais,
Never,
comment tu pouvais penser à ça
how you could think of that
à 6 ans ?
Six?
Il avait déjà une pyramide
He already had a pyramid
de Ponzi,
of Ponzi,
il envoyait des petits gars
He was sending little guys.
qui vendaient pour lui.
who sold for him.
J'étais en 6ème.
I was in sixth grade.
T'avais l'instinct du business.
You had the business instinct.
Moi,
Me,
j'ai jamais...
I never...
Et donc,
And so,
je commençais à faire un peu d'oseille
I was starting to make some money.
avec ces bonbons
with these candy
qui étaient excellents
who were excellent
mais qui étaient vendus
but were sold
3 francs à la boîte.
Three francs to the box.
En gros,
Basically,
c'était 10 francs les 3
It was 10 francs the 3
et moi,
And me,
je vendais 10 francs l'unité.
I sold the unit 10 francs.
Donc,
So,
vraiment,
Really,
j'étais sur une belle marge.
I was on a nice margin.
Déjà,
Already,
une belle marge.
A nice margin.
Il y en a un qui a grillé
There's one who burned
parce qu'il était allé à Lidl
because he went to Lidl
et il a dit
and he said
mais ils sont vraiment pas chers.
But they're really cheap.
Moi,
Me,
je faisais
I was doing
ben non,
Well, no,
je sais pas,
I don't know,
ça a peut-être baissé et tout.
Maybe it went down and everything.
Et je me suis fait embrouiller
And I got confused
par le grand frère
by the older brother
qui est venu m'enculer
who came to fuck me
au stade.
at the stadium.
Il m'a tapé dessus,
He hit me,
etc.
Donc,
So,
moi,
Me,
je suis rentré très mal
I came home very badly
en chialant
crying
et ma soeur l'a vu.
And my sister saw it.
Marie,
Mary,
elle est retournée
She's back.
le voir avec moi
seeing him with me
et elle a défoncé.
And she's high.
Oh !
Oh!
Trop bien !
Too good!
Elle a tapé.
She typed.
Ouais,
Yeah,
elle a tapé.
She typed.
Maintenant,
Now,
c'était pote
It was buddy.
mais à l'époque,
But then,
ça m'a marqué
It marked me.
parce que je sais vraiment...
Because I really know...
Elle était supérieure à lui
She was superior to him.
ou le gars se laissait faire
or the guy let himself go
parce que...
Because...
Elle était costaud.
She was tough.
Au collège,
In college,
en fait,
Actually,
les filles sont plus costaudes.
The girls are stronger.
Elle avait l'âge du mec
She was the guy's age.
ou elle était plus vieille ?
or was she older?
Elle avait l'âge du mec
She was the guy's age.
mais ma soeur était
but my sister was
entourée
Surrounded
de gens pas fréquentables
not frequentable people
au collège
College
et ça se savait.
And it knew.
Donc,
So,
elle est arrivée.
She's here.
Elle lui a mis
She put it on him.
deux,
two,
trois steaks
three steaks
et du coup,
And so,
ils ont arrêté
they stopped
de m'embêter.
to bother me.
Mais tout ça pour dire
But all that to say
qu'une famille,
a family,
c'est quand même pas mal.
It's not bad.
C'est pas bien,
That's not good,
il t'a tapé
He hit you.
mais t'avais quand même
but you still had
au culé tout le collège
the whole college
avec tes bonbons à 100 balles.
With your 100-ball candy.
En fait,
Actually,
parce que moi,
because I,
je voulais un truc
I wanted something.
de vrai bully
real bully
genre qui mérite pas.
Like who doesn't deserve it.
Là,
There,
tu méritais
You deserved
quand tu faisais du scandale.
when you were making a scandal.
Je faisais du business.
I was doing business.
C'est du scandale.
It's a scandal.
À ce moment-là,
At that time,
tu vas taper les épiciers
You're gonna hit the groceries.
qui vendent à la vache qui rit
who sell to the laughing cow
à 9 euros.
9 euros.
Tu parles à un gars
You talk to a guy.
qui vient de vendre
who just sold
un pull 15 euros sur Vinted
15 euros sweater on Vinted
qu'il a acheté à 1 euro.
that he bought at 1 euro.
Non,
No,
mais là,
But here,
il vendait à ses amis.
He was selling to his friends.
Non,
No,
c'était des gens de la classe.
They were class people.
C'est pas mes amis,
They're not my friends.
c'est mes collègues.
They're my colleagues.
j'ai compris ça
I understood that.
en mode,
in mode,
ma meuf,
My girl,
elle met à vendre
she sells
des trucs sur Vinted,
stuff about Vinted,
elle en parle à ses parents
She talks to her parents
qui eux sont très de gauche
who are very left-wing
et elle explique
and explains
que je vais acheter
that I will buy
des trucs aux puces
flea stuff.
et puis des fois,
And then sometimes,
c'est des bons trucs,
It's good stuff,
ils savent pas ce qu'ils vendent.
They don't know what they're selling.
Je les revends plus cher.
I sell them more expensive.
Ils étaient là,
They were there,
ouais,
Yeah,
je sais pas,
I don't know,
je trouve pas ça très éthique.
I don't think that's very ethical.
J'ai dit,
I said,
mais en fait,
But actually,
sondage,
survey,
est-ce que Franjo
is Franjo
méritait de se faire péter la gueule ?
Did you deserve to get fucked?
En fait,
Actually,
là où je méritais,
where I deserved,
c'est qu'en fait,
It's just, actually,
c'était pas spécifié
it wasn't specified
que je faisais une marge.
I was making a margin.
Mais attends,
But wait,
ah,
parce que toi,
Because you,
tu leur disais,
You told them,
juste,
Right,
je vous revends.
I'll sell you back.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
si tu me mentais,
If you were lying to me,
en disant,
saying,
tu es allé en acheter,
You went to buy some,
juste rembourser moi,
Just pay me back,
ils nous disent pas tout.
They don't tell us everything.
Si,
Yes,
je te dis tout justement.
I'm telling you exactly.
Je te dis juste que...
I'm just saying...
Est-ce que tu disais,
Did you say,
ouais,
Yeah,
c'est des trucs qui viennent des States,
It's stuff from the States,
on peut les trouver
We can find them.
qu'il n'y a que moi ?
Is it just me?
pas du tout.
Not at all.
Je disais,
I was saying,
voilà,
There you go.
je te vends 10 francs la boîte.
I'll sell you 10 francs.
En même temps,
At the same time,
ce que tu décris là,
what you describe here,
c'est littéralement,
It's literally,
j'étais dans une rue
I was on a street.
dans le 18ème,
in the 18th,
vers Mars d'Ormo,
towards Mars d'Ormo,
où il n'y a que des restaurants chinois.
where there are only Chinese restaurants.
Il y en a un que j'adorais.
There's one I loved.
C'est bouché crevait,
It's stuck dead,
je les trouvais incroyables,
I thought they were amazing,
mieux que les autres.
Better than the others.
Un jour,
One day,
je vais,
I'm going,
il y a un supermarché
There's a supermarket.
qui est une sorte de métro,
which is a kind of subway,
mais que pour les trucs asiatiques.
But only for Asian stuff.
Je vois tous les restaurateurs dedans.
I see all the restaurateurs in it.
Frère Tang.
Brother Tang.
Ouais,
Yeah,
je ne sais pas comment ça s'appelle.
I don't know what it's called.
Et en fait,
And actually,
je vois le truc
I see the thing.
et les trucs que j'achetais
and the stuff I bought
1€ à la bouchée
1€ per bite
coûtaient 20€
cost 20€
les 200 000 coins.
The 200,000 corners.
Et en fait,
And actually,
c'est juste ça,
It's just that,
c'est le principe de la réaction.
This is the principle of reaction.
C'est parce que vu que c'est là,
That's because since it's here,
que c'est chaud,
it's hot,
compte le serre.
Count the greenhouse.
Mais non,
But no,
mais c'est pas ça,
But it's not that,
c'est le principe de la marge en fait.
This is the principle of margin in fact.
Tu ne payes pas le truc,
You don't pay for it,
tu payes que le gars,
You only pay the guy,
il y a de la lumière,
There's light,
il est là,
He's here,
c'est ouvert,
It's open,
il te le vend,
He sells it to you,
il y a un sac.
There's a bag.
Quand tu es au collège,
When you're in high school,
ce n'est pas explicite,
It's not explicit,
les gens,
people,
tu vois.
See.
Et je peux comprendre du coup
And I can understand that.
que certains soient offusqués
that some are offended
du fait que je passe une marge.
Because I'm passing a margin.
Je voudrais juste savoir
I just want to know
si tu as été honnête
if you were honest
ou si tu étais juste en mode
or if you were just in fashion
non,
No,
mais moi,
But me,
j'en ai acheté plein,
I bought lots of them,
je vous les revends les gars.
I'll sell them to you guys.
Et là,
And there,
on n'a que sa version,
We only have his version,
donc on ne saura jamais.
So we'll never know.
On ne saura jamais.
We'll never know.
Mais moi,
But me,
j'ai été assez honnête,
I've been pretty honest,
j'ai dit que je pense
I said I think
que je n'ai pas été assez clair
that I wasn't clear enough
sur le fait de faire une marge.
on making a margin.
En tout cas,
Anyway,
Marie,
Mary,
c'est marrant,
It's funny.
est-ce que c'était
Was it
une bonne grande sœur ou pas ?
A good big sister or not?
Elle a tapé un gars quand même
She typed a guy anyway
et en même temps,
and at the same time,
elle t'a défendu.
She defended you.
Je ne sais pas,
I don't know,
je ne sais pas,
c'était un peu à la rache.
It was a bit of a rache.
C'est marrant,
It's funny.
les gens s'en souviennent.
People remember.
Moi,
Me,
une fois,
once,
j'ai défendu mon petit frère
I defended my little brother
à un concert
at a concert
parce que j'avais vraiment peur
because I was really scared
qu'il se fasse tuer
that he be killed
et j'ai vraiment sorti
And I really came out
dans ce regard,
in this look,
tu dis,
You say,
ah,
tu m'aimes bien en fait.
You actually like me.
Oui,
Yes,
je ne vais pas te laisser
I'm not leaving you.
te faire taper.
You get beaten.
Tu es con ou quoi ?
Are you stupid?
Mais ça l'avait vraiment touché.
But it really touched him.
C'est vrai que je n'avais
It's true I didn't have
aucune chance.
No chance.
Mais ce qui me marque,
But what marks me,
c'est plus qu'à 11 ans,
It's more than 11 years old,
tu pensais faire du business.
You thought you were doing business.
C'est vrai que moi,
It's true that I,
moi,
Me,
j'ai été fait,
I was made,
je n'ai jamais,
I never,
je ne suis pas un mec fait
I'm not a guy made
pour le business du tout
for the business at all
à la base.
base.
J'ai commencé vraiment
I really started
très,
Very,
très tard à me dire
very late to tell me
peut-être qu'il faut essayer
Maybe we should try.
de,
of,
c'est bien si on fait
It's good if we do
un peu d'argent.
A little money.
Oui,
Yes,
tous les muguets,
all the mugs,
les machins,
the things,
tous les premiers mois,
every first month,
moi,
Me,
j'étais là.
I was there.
Ah oui ?
Really?
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
tu as toujours fait ça.
You've always done this.
Ah mais c'est un truc de...
Ah, but it's a...
Putain,
Fuck,
mais il faut que,
But we have to,
viens,
Come,
fais du vintage avec moi.
Make vintage with me.
Je te jure,
I swear,
il y a des mecs
There are guys.
qui sont des marges de l'ouf.
which are the margins of the egg.
Tu sais pourquoi
You know why.
je ne suis pas de vintage ?
I'm not vintage?
Ce n'est pas moi,
It's not me,
mais faire ça en gros,
But do it basically,
il y a énormément de gamins
There are a lot of kids.
qui sont en train
who are in the process
de se faire un prix
to make a price
des marges énormes.
huge margins.
Non,
No,
mais moi,
But me,
si j'aime l'argent,
If I like money,
je ne fais pas vintage.
I'm not vintage.
Parce que c'est une perte de temps.
Because it's a waste of time.
Mais vas-y.
But go ahead.
Tu n'as pas compris,
You don't understand.
il n'aime pas l'argent
He doesn't like money.
en dizaines d'euros,
in tens of euros,
lui,
he,
il l'aime en dizaines
He loves her in tens
de millions d'euros.
EUR million.
C'est juste que tu perds du temps
You're just wasting time.
et que ton temps vaut plus cher.
And your time is worth more.
Non, mais moi,
No, but me,
ça me faisait rire.
It made me laugh.
C'était pour vous.
It was for you.
En fait,
Actually,
c'est que ma meuf
It's just my girl.
commençait le truc
started the thing
et je voulais le montrer
and I wanted to show it
que je pouvais faire mieux.
I could do better.
Putain,
Fuck,
time is money.
Money is time
to the sky, quoi.
To the sky.
T'empêche,
You can't,
le fond de l'autre.
the bottom of the other.
Toi,
You,
tu l'appliques bien,
You apply it well,
déjà,
already,
ce truc.
This thing.
Deux.
Two.
Mon temps,
My time,
tu commences à déléguer des trucs,
You're starting to delegate things,
tu fais moins de temps.
You don't have much time.
Je ne suis pas très,
I'm not very,
très vif,
very lively,
mais ouais,
But yeah,
ça va.
It's okay.
Tu es obligé
You have to
parce que
because
il y en fera plus tard.
He'll do it later.
J'espère quand même
I still hope
faire,
do,
comment dire,
How to say,
gagner de l'argent
making money
pour moi,
For me,
ça se repose sur
It's based on
je fais des bonnes blagues.
I'm making good jokes.
en grande partie.
Much of it.
Mais il n'y a pas que ça.
But it's not just that.
L'ami Davidson
Friend Davidson
nous a fait signe
Signed us
que le chrono
time
était arrivé
had arrived
à expiration.
Expiry.
Voilà,
There you go.
clink,
fange-toi,
Eat,
on va faire un sans défect.
We're gonna do one without a defect.
Hop,
ça a foiré.
It messed up.
Bon,
All right,
laisse-le par terre,
Leave him on the floor,
tant pis.
So bad.
Bon,
All right,
la promo,
promotion,
on l'a déjà fait,
We've already done it,
donc on a juste à vous dire
So we just have to tell you
à mettre des commentaires.
to comment.
On peut faire,
We can do,
oui,
Yes,
commentaire,
comment,
on peut faire
We can do it.
la nôtre de promo
our promo
rapido,
rapid,
si on veut.
If we want.
Si ce n'est pas sorti,
If it didn't come out,
il ne m'en reste qu'une,
I only have one left,
c'est le 29 décembre,
It's December 29,
c'est la capta.
It's the capta.
Est-ce qu'elle a planté ?
Did she plant it?
Oui.
Yes.
Donc c'est le 29 décembre.
So it's December 29.
Le 29 décembre.
December 29.
Moi,
Me,
je joue toutes les semaines
I play every week
aux Républiques
Republics
et je joue le 26,
and I play on the 26th,
27,
28,
29 aux Républiques.
29 in the Republics.
Voilà,
There you go.
exceptionnel le Noël.
exceptional Christmas.
Ah ouais,
Oh yeah,
toi,
You,
tu ne t'arrêtes pas,
You don't stop,
tu es un malade.
You're a sick man.
Évidemment,
Of course,
l'Olympia le 12 avril,
Olympia on 12 April,
les places partent vite,
the seats leave fast,
ça c'est fou,
This is crazy,
parce que c'est top.
'Cause it's great.
C'est bien,
That's good,
les gens,
people,
ils aiment bien les grosses dates
they like big dates
plus que les petites dates résidences.
more than small dates residences.
Ouais,
Yeah,
c'est ça que je préfère,
That's what I prefer,
je vais booker un Olympia.
I'm gonna book an Olympia.
Tu ne veux pas me l'avancer,
You don't want to bring it to me,
Franjo ?
Franjo?
Allez,
Come on.
à toi.
You.
Ben moi,
Me,
pareil,
the same,
mes deux dernières pour,
my last two for,
putain,
Fuck,
il ne faut pas que je m'emballe trop,
I don't have to get too excited,
mais normalement,
but normally,
la capta,
the capture,
normalement,
normally,
c'est bon,
It's okay,
mais bon,
But good,
ça peut encore foirer.
It can still screw up.
Donc ce sera,
So it will be,
ah putain,
Fuck,
18,
19 mars,
19 March,
à l'Européen.
to the European.
Prenez les places,
Take the seats,
et c'est vrai que ça part plus vite,
And it's true that it starts faster,
parce qu'Européen,
because European,
parce que j'ai toujours voulu jouer là-bas.
Because I always wanted to play there.
Je te confie que c'est incroyable.
I trust you, it's amazing.
Ouais,
Yeah,
ouais,
et sinon,
and if not,
tourner,
turn,
Besançon,
shit sell,
ou ça rame un peu.
or it's a little rowing.
Besançon,
Lille,
venez nous voir.
Come see us.
Et sinon,
And if not,
voilà.
There.
Besançon,
du coup,
So,
je ne l'attente même pas,
I don't even wait for her,
j'ai l'impression.
I feel like it.
Mettez soldat Besançon
Put Private Besançon
pour avoir des promos
to have promotions
pour Pierre et moi.
For me and Pierre.
Ouais,
Yeah,
soldat Besançon,
Private Besançon,
après,
then,
je peux t'en dire d'autres,
I can tell you more,
je peux t'en dire.
I can tell you.
Non,
No,
mais ça va,
But it's okay,
en vrai,
Actually,
ça va.
It's okay.
Moi,
Me,
je vends des pulls Adidas
I sell Adidas sweaters
sur Vinted,
on Vinted,
c'est Théo et Lille 63.
It's Theo and Lille 63.
Ça part vraiment bien.
It's really good.
C'est vraiment le nom de ton truc.
That's really the name of your thing.
Merci à tous ceux
Thanks to all those
qui mettent de l'argent
who put money
sur Tipeee.
on Tipee.
Ça fait plaisir,
It's a pleasure.
c'est grâce à vous.
It's thanks to you.
L'amour,
Love,
la bise.
The kiss.
Et désolé pour la petite pub au milieu,
And sorry about the little commercial in the middle,
il y en a qui gueulent,
Some people are screaming,
mais ça coûte vraiment du fric
But it really costs money.
de faire le podcast.
to do the podcast.
Ah oui,
Oh, yes.
la pub au Dieu,
advertising to God,
oui,
Yes,
à Cast,
in Cast,
là,
There,
c'est une pub,
It's a commercial,
les gars,
Guys,
vous pouvez la faire sauter en plus.
You can blow it up.
En plus,
Plus,
on va voir,
Let's see,
parce qu'il y a des discussions,
Because there are discussions,
on va peut-être trouver un moyen
Maybe we'll find a way.
pour qu'il n'y ait plus celle du milieu,
so that there is no more middle one,
mais ce n'est pas gagné encore.
But it's not won yet.
Il n'y aura plus celle du milieu,
There won't be the middle one anymore,
mais s'il n'y a plus celle du milieu,
but if there is no more middle one,
c'est que nous,
It's just us,
on va en lire en direct.
We're gonna read live.
Il faut trouver l'entre-deux.
We have to find the in-between.
Tous les podcasts,
All podcasts,
c'est comme ça,
That's how it is,
les gars,
Guys,
ce n'est pas gratuit.
It's not free.
Et t'énerve pas,
And don't get mad,
on le dit avec amour.
We say it with love.
Ce n'est pas gratuit,
It's not free,
je suis gilet jaune.
I'm a yellow vest.
La plupart des gens,
Most people,
ils s'en foutent en plus,
They don't care anymore,
mais on peut comprendre que ça arrive.
But we can understand that this is happening.
Voilà,
There you go.
c'est tout,
That's all,
et puis on se voit la semaine prochaine
And then I'll see you next week.
pour l'épisode du Nouvel An.
for the New Year episode.
Bisous.
Kisses.